er lips being
pressed upon the fellow’s hand.

The landlord waited until Will Jackson had retired, and then hastily
came up just as the woman had entered the kitchen and was about to
close the door. Without saying a word, he put his shoulder to it and
forced an entry. He paid no heed to the woman until the door was
bolted, so that no one might intrude, and he had got the candles lit.
Then he turned upon his victim.

That the winterly cold had struck her he could see. Her pale face was
mottled with blue patches where its claws had pinched her; the belated
hair that had wriggled from her hood hung on her temples limp and wet;
and the fingers of one starved hand were stiffened to the burnt-out
lantern that they bore. She had a crying need for warmth and kindness,
but those were luxuries that Master Gamaliel administered only to
himself. Thus he poured some brandy forth and drank it briskly, and
warmed his frozen hands at the candle-blaze. He then felt strong enough
to turn his attention to the lady.

“Madam,” he said, “this is a very serious thing. I await your
explanation of it, madam.”

Saying this, he craftily assumed a place between her and the stairs
leading to the bedfast traveller’s chamber. Her retreat was intercepted.

She looked at him dumbly, and did not answer. But she lifted her
pleading eyes up to his face of stone, as one who knew the great powers
residing in them, and who was accustomed to employ them as weapons of
defence. The landlord laughed a little insolently.

“I am very weary,” said the woman. “Can we not choose a better season
to discuss this matter?”

“Madam,” said the landlord harshly, “I choose to discuss it now. But
first, before I do so, I must have your name. Your companion and
yourself have been two days immured in my best taffety chamber fronting
the sea, yet up to this very hour have I been denied what is the first
essential to us innkeepers. But, madam, I must have it now.”

The woman looked at his cold face falteringly. Then she withdrew her
eyes and took a further refuge in her silence.

“Madam, I demand it,” said Gamaliel, sternly. “The times are greatly
perilous, and what assurances have I that you are not a pair of
malignants, a pair of proscribed Royalists, a pair of Charles Stuart’s
friends and my Lord Cromwell’s enemies?”

The woman trembled. When the hunted doe takes to the water, it has the
look and manner that the pale woman had then. The landlord wrote every
inflection of her demeanour down in his heart. His two little eyes, now
contracted with their cunning so that they looked like two glass beads
in his head, pierced her like s