pted his favourite trick of clapping his hands to his
ribs, and shouting his laughter.

“Too absurd, too absurd!” he said. “I protest, Farnham, you make
me laugh. You can’t do it, hey? You can’t shoot your King. My dear
Farnham, do you really hold that to be so remarkable? Confess, now,
did you ever seriously for a moment think you could?”

“I did, Sire, and tried,” said Lord Farnham.

“What a pity you did not recognise your limitations sooner, Farnham,”
said the King. “Think of the pother you would have spared yourself.”

“True, Sire,” said Farnham.

“That you should ever have thought that you could have slain your
sovereign, my dear Farnham, is the most whimsical thing I ever heard in
my life.”

“Not altogether, Sire,” said the young man significantly. “Your Majesty
may recall instances of regicide.”

“You should have spared us that, Farnham,” said the King reproachfully.
An almost human emotion seemed for once to be in his eyes. They were
full of pain.

“I crave your forgiveness, Sire,” said the man in the bed. “I was a
little carried away.”

“As you say,” said Charles, “there have been instances of regicide. But
it is only the canaille who are guilty of that crime. I do not think
gentlemen are addicted to it.”

The young man sank back in his pillows. Observing both him and his wife
to be grievously overwrought by what had passed, the King withdrew from
the chamber to talk to the landlord below. He promised to return soon.

When the door had closed upon him, and his steps had died away on the
stairs, the unhappy young man whispered to the woman:

“My God, I fear I was stark mad!”

“Canst thou forgive me?” said the wife. “I, too, was mad. I did not
know what I did, or where I was. I did but know he was the King, the
most unfortunate King in all the world. I did but know he was hunted
for his life, like some poor wild animal. And when I saw his face, and
his eyes shone on me, I think I could have fallen dead in the agony of
seeing him. Yes, mine own, I, too, was mad.”

“Curse him!” said the husband. “I would have slain him had I had the
power. But when I looked into his face, even with the weapon in my
hands, all the little strength within my body suddenly ran out of it. I
could not slay him; he was the King.”

“Yes, the King,” said the wife, thrillingly. “Always the King--the most
unfortunate King in all the world.”

“There is something about him,” said the husband, wildly; “whether it
be his face, his name, his virtues, his vices, his father’s fate, or
his own lamentable history, I know not, but there is so