

“N-no,” she said. “Not to-night, I think.”

The landlord pricked his ears up. Gazing at her, he observed that at
last the blood had come to her pale cheeks. His own pulse quickened,
too. And he smiled to note how her attempt at secrecy galled her. Even
with a strip of black velvet across her eyes, her face was as easy to
read as a printed page. She was a simple creature, whose instincts
betrayed her.

Very soon the stricken man was conveyed to the chamber that had been
set for his reception. It had little to recommend it, to be sure, yet
it was the best and most spacious the “Sea Rover” could boast. It had
not been used for years; and when a fire was kindled in the unwilling
chimney, a colony of sheltering birds were grievously perturbed.

However, Cicely the serving-maid was a bustling soul with a warm and
capacious heart, into which the poor guests had been already admitted.
She had aired the sheets by the kitchen fire, dusted the apartment,
and adjusted the bed and its furniture, all by the time the unhappy
gentleman was got up the stairs.

The landlord came at the tail of the procession. He wore a sagacious
gravity. He said:

“If I can give ye a finger of assistance, madam, I shall be more than
happy.”

“My husband can only suffer me about him,” said the lady. “But you are
very kind.”

“And what might be his malady, if I may be so bold, ma’am?” the
landlord asked.

“’Tis an incurable disease,” the lady said.

“And what might they call it, ma’am,” said the soft Gamaliel. His voice
had the most persuasive humility.

Again the telltale blush showed beneath the mask.

“I--I do not know,” the woman faltered.

The landlord was much too astute to pursue the theme. He apologised
for the poverty of the chamber, but it was the best he could place
at their disposal. It was a lonesome inn, they must know, not in the
least designed for the honour of gentry. But he would not have them
conclude for the world--Master Gamaliel coughed in a most deprecatory
manner--that, country person as he might be, he was ignorant of what
was the due of people of quality. Assuring them of his humble duty and
of his desire to promote their comfort in every way, he hoped they
had blankets enough, and if they had not, would they kindly inform
Cicely the serving-maid? Thereon he gave them “Good-night,” and hobbled
downstairs, so deep in his thoughts that he collided with a warming-pan
filled with hot brands that was being carried upstairs by the assiduous
Cicely. The landlord gave a howl of pain as it shrivelled the back of
his hand.

“Should mind where ye be goin’ then,” said th