at least, not to speak of
daggers. Probably the presence of a lady would restrain him.

Still, after all, kings were not in the habit of fighting, except
on the field of battle. They were much too high up in the world for
that. If the King’s numerous friends, who certainly were not a farther
distance from the royal person than his safety rendered desirable,
would only keep off till to-morrow, all would be well. If they turned
up when the soldiers came, the distracted landlord was sure he should
run out of the house and hide himself, even if he lost the King’s price
thereby. To-night he felt very old and weak and overborne.

The time seemed interminable. It was as though the hands of the
ruthlessly slow old clock in the corner would never go round. Five
struck, and then six, without engendering much excitement in the
landlord’s heart. The tardy passing of the minutes between six and
seven, however, occasioned the first flutter in his spirit. It was
tentative mainly; the time for the furious beatings of his blood and
the palsy of his limbs was not yet at hand.

At about twenty minutes to seven the first incident of that strange
night occurred. The kitchen door was suddenly flung open, with never a
“With your leave” or a “By your leave,” and a tall man entered. He was
attired in a great hat, whose wide flapping brims were tied down over
his ears and under his chin, doubtless that it might not fall a prey to
the rude sea-wind; whilst a heavy cloak of a sanguine colour covered
him from his neck to the calves of his legs, and left but a pair of
extremely muddy riding-boots to be seen below. His voice was loud and
high, and singularly penetrating. He addressed the landlord without the
preface of any ceremony.

“Landlord,” he said, “you have lately taken a new servant-man into your
service, I believe, who goes by the name of Jackson. I wish to see him.”

The landlord was full of tremors, but rum-and-water made him bold. This
was doubtless a friend of the King, come to take his Majesty away into
a safer seclusion.

“The man Jackson is no longer in my service, sir,” said the landlord,
shortly. Even as he uttered this, he thought it rather happy, it had
the merit of being perfectly true.

“When did he quit it?” asked the tall man, striving to conceal his
excitement.

“This morning,” said the landlord.

“Did he go alone?”

“To the best of my belief, yes,” said the landlord, firmly.

“How odd!” said the other. “Did he give a reason for his departure, and
did he say whither he was going?”

“He was dismissed my service, sir,” said the landlord, with the
inspiration of h