er. There is no necessity to
have recourse to the electric light for this purpose. If matches are
made with such media held before the eyes in ordinary daylight, the
same results will be obtained. I have often examined through these
same media the matches made by the colour blind, and been able at once
to settle the nature of the defective vision from which they were
suffering. It must be remembered that the colours transmitted through
these two glasses are not _absolutely like_ the whites which the two
classes of colour blind see respectively, though they approach it.

We can imitate even more exactly the matches that they would make by
matching white light with a mixture of red, green, and violet of the
proper hues, and covering up the red or green slit, and then placing
the test-skein and the matches in the colour so formed. From the other
skeins viewed in the same light can be picked out the matches which
would be possible. There is very little chance, if any, of a mistake
about them being made when this plan is adopted.




CHAPTER XIV.


Holmgren’s test, although a qualitative one, is most accurate in
allowing a diagnosis to be formed, but it sometimes happens that a
candidate is not satisfied that he has failed in passing the test, and
wishes for another examination. Such a re-examination is best carried
out by the spectrum method, which I will now describe.

The test with the spectrum is a very decisive one, and can be carried
out with the patch apparatus (Fig. 3), page 19. Personally, I like to
have some idea of the kind of colour blindness, if any, which exists by
first using the Holmgren test. Should these tests show that a candidate
is colour blind in any degree, a very excellent beginning is to try and
find his neutral point in the spectrum--if he has one. To arrive at
it we place two patches of light on the screen, one of colour and the
other of white, the rotating sectors being in the last-named beam, and
ask him to say when the two colours appear alike. It must be remembered
that white is coloured from the effect of contrast as long as the
colour alongside differs from it. A good _point de depart_ is with the
slit in the yellow, then to move it into the red, and then gradually
to push it into the green. When here, if colour blind, he will say,
“The two patches are nearly alike, but that the white is rather pink or
green,” as the slit gets further towards the blue. The operator, whilst
changing the colour, alters the sectors so that the luminosities are
about the same. A point will be reached when the colour blind will say,
“Now they are both alike, but one is rather darker than the other.”
The sectors are altered until he says they are both alike, and the
observation is satisfactory when he declares the two patches of light
are both alike in colour and in darkness. It is curious how misleading
the word brightness is to some people who are uneducated. I find it
much safer to ask which is the darker colour, rather than which is
the brighter. A lit