ne, one wholly strange
to himself and even to those who were familiar with it.

“Madam,” he said, “be calm, I pray you. We must bow to the inevitable.”

Very gently he unclasped the arms of his wife from about his neck. He
then turned to the eagerly-listening soldiers with a grave, sad smile,
which yet had a delicate courtesy in it that insensibly disarmed them
with its charm.

“Gentlemen,” he said, “I pray you be a little patient with us. We are
even now but recovering from a memorial we bore upon our person of the
melancholy Third. Be a little patient, I pray you, gentlemen, and we
will hope to rise from our couch when we have recovered of ourselves a
little, and greet you more formally.”

Captain Culpeper bowed humbly. Few men can look upon a King unmoved;
and a monarch in his last extremity may receive even the consideration
of his enemies.

“I beg you, Sire,” said the soldier, in a broken voice, “that you will
not submit your person to the least inconvenience. We find you so weak
and stricken, Sire, that we earnestly pray that to-night you will not
attempt to discompose yourself on our account.”

“You are more than kind, sir,” said the man in the bed; “a courteous
enemy, indeed. But we will rise and endeavour to extend a little
courtesy unto you and these gentlemen, as is your merit.”

The words were excellently spoken. They had a dignified grace, and,
above all, by some strange trick that the occasion had invoked, the
incomparable melancholy that might be expected to proceed from the lips
of the unfortunate King. The illusion was perfect. There was no longer
any need for the soldiers to look about in uncertainty for the King,
now that the man in the bed had spoken. His tones were unmistakable.

Charles, however, was no nearer escape than he was before. He was still
hemmed in, in the middle of the chamber, by the press of soldiery.
Some pretext must be found upon which he would be allowed to go
thence. But the least excitement of their suspicions must be avoided,
or he would be inevitably detained. And every moment that he loitered
now was fraught with the highest danger. Their great fear was the
landlord. They had reason to think him faithful, but not too liberally
endowed with wit. Should he appear in the chamber entirely ignorant
of the deceit that was being practised, he was quite likely to commit
some gross blunder by which the King would be discovered. And, too,
there was always the fear that some soldier, better informed than his
companions, might recognise the King in spite of his disguise and the
trick his friends were practising for his benefit.

Some means of exit m