s were made--

                     251 R + 109 U = 62 W + 298 B,

                                  and

                     277 G + 83 U = 107 W + 253 B.

In this case 363 Green are equivalent to 251 parts of Red mixed with 78
of White and 34 Black. The difference in the matches made by the two
types of colour blindness is very evident. In the one case the amount
of red required is much greater than the green, and in the other _vice
versâ_. Another instance may be given of colour matches made, by means
of discs, by a _partially_ green-blind person, whose case will be more
fully described when we treat of the luminosity of the spectrum to the
different classes of colour vision.

His matches were as follows--1st, That of the normal vision. 2nd,--

                  160 R + 80 G + 120 U = 72 W + 288 B.

The green was then altered to 200, when the following made a match--

                  65 R + 200 G + 95 U = 72 W + 288 B.

Using these two equations, we have the following curious result--that
120 G was matched by 95 R + 25 U. As the green disc is nearly twice as
luminous as the red to normal colour vision, this equation confirms
the result otherwise obtained, that his blindness to colour is a
deficiency in the green sensation. No mixtures of blue and red, or blue
and green, would match a grey formed by the rotation of the black and
white sectors.

I must now introduce to your notice a different method of experimenting
with colour vision. If we throw the whole spectrum on the screen, and
ask a person with normal vision to point out the brightest part, he
will indicate the yellow, whilst a red-blind will say the green, and
so on. This tells us that the various types of colour blind must see
their spectrum colours with luminosity differing from that of the
normal eye. The difference can be measured by causing both to express
their sense of the brightness of the different parts of the spectrum
in terms of white light, or of one another. Brightness and luminosity
are here used synonymously. On the two small screens are a red and a
green patch of monochromatic light--a look at the green shows that it
is much brighter than the red. Rotating sectors, the apertures of which
can be opened or closed at pleasure during rotation, are now placed in
the path of the green ray. The apertures are made fairly small, and the
green is now evidently dimmer than the red. When they are well open
the green is once more brighter. Evidently at some time during the
closing of the apertures there is one position in which the red and
green must be of the same brightness, since the green passes through
the stage of being too light to that of being too dark. By gradually
diminishing the range of the “too open” to “too closed” apertures we
arrive at the aperture where the two colours appear equally bright. The
two patches will cease to wink at the operator, if we may use such an
unscientific expression, when equality in brightness is established.
This operation of equalising luminosities m