mething about
him that even his bitterest enemies are unable to withstand. I was by
his rein in Worcester fight, and twice I saw the blow levelled that
was to deprive him forever of his kingdom, and twice it did not fall.
I can see the look in the eyes of one grim Roundhead even now, as he
stood with his pike poised within a foot of the King’s neck. And when,
striking, he saw it to be the King, he stayed his weapon in mid-air and
directed it upon another. I know not what quality it be within him.”

“It is because the name he bears,” the woman said, “is the noblest and
the most ill-fated name that ever a king did bear.”

“Curse him!” said the husband. “I learnt to hate him before to-day.”

A demon was in the young man’s heart. It was probably the fact that
his own life could ill-support a scrutiny which lent a poignance to
his jealousy; and is it not he the least without taint who is the
readiest to cast the stone? The consciousness embittering his spirit
that he was in no sense worthy of the woman who watched over him
so tenderly, caused him almost fiercely to resent the intrusion of
another within her thoughts. He feared the security of his own position
there. There is no form of this disease so acute as that which springs
from the sufferer’s knowledge of his own inferiority. The King was
nobler, handsomer, more alluring to the eyes of a woman than he. His
misfortunes and his station made him dreadful in the eyes of a jealous
man. He hated the King, not so much for what he had done, as for what
he had it in his power to do. It seemed to the young man in the depths
of his remorse that Charles had it in his power to bereave him of the
only thing in life he cared for.

“Patsy woman,” he said, miserably, “I begged you to let me perish of
that inflammation the other night. Oh, why did you not! It would have
been better for us all. You know I am not worthy of you; you know I
never can be worthy of you, weak fool as I am. It would have been more
merciful to let me perish. I should not then have been condemned to lie
here helpless in my bed and watch another steal away your love from me.
He is a King, I know; but I cannot bear it.”

The woman returned to the bedside and replaced her hand tenderly within
his own.

“Foolish child,” she said,--“foolish, jealous child! And yet mine is
the blame. I should have ordered my susceptibilities better. He was our
King, helpless and without a friend, driven from pillar to post, with
never a place of security in which to soothe his weariness. It was the
glamour of his unhappiness that overcame me. But, mine own, are you not
my king also?”

“You