 of
Worcester. I am wearied to death by the whole business; I am tired; I
yawn. I will take a day’s rest, the first for many a wretched month;
I will take it in your society, madam, and see if I have a better
inclination to continue this struggle of one unhappy man against
overwhelming circumstance to-morrow.”

“There will be no to-morrow, Sire,” said the lady. “Tarry here in this
accursed place till then, and you will be surely ta’en.”

Her voice had the fullest conviction in it. It was no leap in the dark,
no idle prophecy. Too well did she know the man downstairs with whom
she had had to deal.

The King shook his head and smiled bitterly. There was no banishing
the melancholy indifference from his voice. He was bored by the whole
affair, and he was such a wilful fellow, that he would not stir a
finger to save his own life if he had not the inclination. He was tired
and depressed and sick of heart. At this moment it suited him better
to be the prey of melancholy and to give rein to his sad fancies. He
preferred to utilise those misfortunes which made him so irresistible
in the eyes of all, particularly those of women.

It might have been that the extreme beauty of this compassionate lady
was working upon him to his own undoing. For certainly, now that the
wilful young King found himself in her presence, the desire uppermost
in his mind was to stay in it. His life hung on a thread, and with
it the hopes of thousands of his countrymen and the destinies of
nations; but because a beautiful woman had pitied him, for the nonce
he preferred to sit still and bask in her tears. To-morrow the mercury
might rise. He might then find the energy to save his neck, or to
attempt to do so; but to-day his inclination was far otherwise. He was
disposed to give the rein to his adorable melancholy; and to wrap his
cold spirit warmly in a woman’s sorrow.

The woman, cut to the heart by the young man’s wanton disregard of
his sacred duty, had, with the instinct that often is with those that
possess a singular potency, divined one factor of it. Her heart stood
still. The horror of the thought almost overcame her. That she, in her
own person, should be the unconscious and unwilling means of her King’s
destruction! Unhappy, wayward youth, that his blood should be upon her
head! The thought was impossible to endure.

“Sire,” she said wildly, “thou canst not have considered of all thy
dalliance means. The last person a king can think of is himself. His
responsibilities are more than personal. Sire, you must indeed go.
Consider the destiny of your race, consider your friends.”

The young King’s eyes sparkled at 