he had proved more than a match for him; with this one he
must prove the same. Still, it was a little unreasonable for anyone
short of Captain Culpeper, who, to be sure, would not have stayed to
knock, to obtrude himself at such a crisis in his life--nay, at such a
crisis in the destiny of nations.

Filled with the unction of his previous success, the landlord hobbled
boldly to the door and opened it. The apparition waiting upon the
threshold seemed to have stepped bodily out of one of Gamaliel’s
wildest nightmares. It was the elderly mariner in the dogskin cap.
There he stood, with the earrings in his ears; the same malignant,
humorous leer in his face. The scar across it shone white in the
brightness of the kitchen fire; the naked knife at his waist was
shining too. And, above all, his two great brown paws looked more
knotted and gnarled than ever.

“A pleasant evenin’ to you, mate,” said Diggory Fargus.

“Same to you,” said the landlord, awkwardly.

With no better invitation, the sailor lurched into the kitchen, assumed
a seat by the fire, as on the previous occasion of his coming, and
asked for a go of rum. The landlord ordered the serving-maid to bring
it to him. The sailor tasted it deliberately when it was given to
him, warmed his hands, and then cocked his one ugly eye across at the
landlord. In spite of himself Gamaliel shivered. His awe of this rude
mariner was in the last degree absurd; but there it was. His native
delicacy was doubtless too great for him to be entirely at his ease in
the society of these rude characters.

“I am here, mate, about that young man I mentioned to ye the other
evenin’,” said the mariner. “Have ye seen him yet?”

In an instant the landlord, afraid as he was of this fellow, arrived at
the conclusion that his presence in that house was not at all required.
The sooner he was quit of him the better. The young man he sought might
very possibly be upstairs; he might prove to be either my Lord Farnham
or the King; but things were very well as they were. This Diggory
Fargus could not improve them; he might very possibly undo them though.

“I have seen no young man,” said Gamaliel shortly. “And I don’t much
want to see one. This is a peaceable and honest inn.”

“I never said it weren’t,” said the mariner. “But have you had any
comp’ny, mate, these three days?”

“None to speak of,” said the landlord.

“Have you got any now?” asked the mariner.

“I have not,” said the landlord.

“Then, mate,” said the mariner, spitting freely amongst the logs on
the hearth, “you’re a liar.”

That was so trite a fact to Gamaliel, tha