ps.

“No, no; not that!” she moaned. “Not that! You will not be so cruel--so
unmerciful.”

“Madam, I will not be trifled with,” said the landlord. “If you do not
speak the truth to me, all three of you shall be given up.”

“Oh, sir,” she said, trembling like a reed in the wind, “it is indeed
the truth. I beg you to believe me.”

“I never saw a worse hand at a lie,” said the landlord, with a sneer.
“But, ’fore God! you shall pay for it. Joseph, do you come here
instantly.”

The landlord summoned his son. That rather dismal youth obeyed his
father’s call with a resentful alacrity.

“Madam,” said the landlord, “I give you one minute by this watch
of mine in which to make your decision. Confess the truth, and the
twenty-four hours’ respite holds good. Persevere in this monstrous
falsehood, and you shall pay for it in your husband’s blood. I have
never yet seen the man, let alone the woman, who could trifle with
Gamaliel Hooker. And, sirrah, do you heed this also. As I’m a live man,
you shall swing in a gibbet for this!”

The old man ended in a gust of fury that carried him away. He then said
to his son:

“I fear me, Joseph, that you must go saddle your horse in a minute. I
shall be wanting you to take a message to a certain place I wot of.”

The landlord pulled forth his watch and began to count the seconds
dramatically. The woman seemed petrified to stone.

“I ask you for the last time, madam, what you know of this fellow,”
said the implacable landlord. “Refuse to tell me, and it is your
unhappy husband, not yourself, who pays the price.”

None knew more perfectly than the landlord how to torture her. Again he
had the wretched creature on her knees before him; and again he had the
privilege of laughing in her face.

“Rise, madam,” said Will Jackson.

The landlord turned towards him and gazed at him in blank astonishment.
It was not so much the drawer’s words, audacious as they were, that
had this electrical effect on Gamaliel Hooker. It was the manner of
their utterance. They were spoken in a full, calm voice, quiet and
self-contained, and one that sounded mighty odd from the mouth of a
servant. For, above all, it had a tone that even a bold man would have
found it hard to disobey.

“Rise, madam,” said the serving-man, and, bending forward towards her,
he assisted her to do so.

She trembled so violently when she got upon her feet that she could
hardly stand. But she kept her face averted from the audacious servitor
in a singularly painful way. She seemed afraid to look at him.

“We will have done with play-acting, if you please,” 