“Are you the master of the little vessel that Colonel Phelips promised
to engage for my lord?” asked Lady Farnham.

“Ay, ay, ma’am,” said the mariner. “She’ve been lying three days past
in Pyler’s Cove, a short sea-mile up the beach. When I was here a day
or so agone, ye hadn’t touched this port. I should ha’ come last night
again, but we couldn’t ha’ put to sea in sich a gale as that.”

“I was expecting you anxiously,” said Lady Farnham. “Indeed, so anxious
did I become, that in the middle of the night I went forth to seek you,
but saw you not.”

“I daresay I was under hatches then,” said the sailor. “But to-night
at ten o’clock the wind and tide should be fair enough. We can get off
then.”

A great hope suddenly beaconed in the woman’s face.

“Oh! if you can, good sailor,” she exclaimed, impulsively, “I shall
never be able to requite you.”

Even as she spoke, however, there came a thought that dashed it to the
earth. There was her husband. He was too weak to move.

“My lord is stricken,” she said. “He cannot walk a step. What is to be
done, good sailor?”

The mariner scratched his head.

“Don’t ye fret about that, ma’am,” he said. “Diggory Fargus hath run
too many cargoes in precarious plazen to be beat by a thing like that.
I’ll bring three o’ my mates along wi’ a litter, at half-past nine o’
the clock. We should be able to bear the gentleman easy if we takes our
time.”

“It is well thought on,” said the King.

“At half-past nine of the clock then, good sailor,” said the lady,
fervently. “And may God requite you for your services. We will be in
readiness.”

Diggory Fargus pulled his forelock and went downstairs in the company
of the nervous landlord.

“Oh, Sire,” said the poor lady--the tears were come into her eyes,--“it
is indeed a providence that the sailor is here at such a time. Wilt
thou not come with us, too? Something clearly told me that if you spent
this night, Sire, under this roof, you would be ta’en.”

“Madam, you are more than kind,” said the King, complaisantly. “We
will consider it. Although we think we must not disappoint our other
friends. They, too, have a boat chartered for us somewhere. But we
shall see. On the one hand is our duty; on the other, our inclination.”

There was no misreading the lustre in the King’s face.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  XIII

  _The Soldiers_]


When the landlord had carefully and thankfully seen the sailor out of
his house, he looked at the clock as one hardly daring to do so. It was
still twenty minutes past seven. The landlor