t he did not attempt to
contradict it. He was not a little disconcerted by it, however.

“Now I’ll tell ye, mate, how I know ye’re a liar,” said the sailor,
with a slow anger that made him far more formidable than an outburst
would have done. “The candles are comin’ through the chinks in the
shutters of that front chamber over the sign. Perhaps ye’ll tell me
that that don’t mean comp’ny; but in any case Diggory Fargus is a-going
up to look with his own blessed deadlight, and ye can lay to that,
mate.”

Without condescending to parley further with the landlord, who had
plainly none of his confidence, Diggory Fargus got up from the fire and
lurched to the stairs.

“What are you about, man?” said the landlord excitedly. “It is no place
for you, up there! There are lords and ladies up there.”

“I knew you were a liar,” said the grimly satisfied mariner. “Lords and
ladies, is they? Well, like as not, that’s just who I’ve come to see.
What moight be their names, mate?”

The landlord, seeing that it was hopeless to throw more dust in the
shrewd sailor’s eye, submitted with the best grace he could summon.

“Well, there’s my Lord Farnham for one,” he said.

“My Lord Farnham, is there?” said the sailor. “Well, mate, I calls
that sing’lar, seein’ as how my Lord Farnham is the very young man I’m
wantin’.”

“I will conduct you to him, then,” said the landlord.

He had lost the game; but he spoke as cheerfully and obligingly as he
could, for he was keenly desirous to propitiate this ugly devil of a
mariner. Besides, one sailor more or less did not matter much at this
stage. The time was growing very short. The hoofs of the soldiers’
horses would soon be heard on the road. Diggory Fargus or ten Diggory
Farguses would then be of no avail.

The landlord put his best leg foremost, and led the sailor up the
rickety stairs to the chamber where the King sat in the society of the
Earl of Farnham and his Countess. He knocked a little timidly upon the
door.

“Enter,” said the frank voice of the King.

“If it please your Majesty and your lordship and your ladyship,”
said the landlord, putting his nose on his belly again, deeming that
etiquette demanded it of him, “there is here a sailor-man to see my
lord.”

“Let us have a look at him,” said the King, scenting some little
diversion.

“Which be my Lord Farnham, mate?” said the mariner, addressing the
King bluffly. He was a plain man himself, and the landlord’s elaborate
flummeries rather increased the directness of his manners.

“The pale gentleman lying in his bed,” said the King.

