 subject of testing for colour vision was brought
prominently forward some two or three years ago, and a Committee of the
Royal Society, to which I acted as secretary, was requested to consider
the methods at that time in force on the railways and in the mercantile
marine, and to find one which was not open to objection. It recommended
the system that had been elaborated by Holmgren, a Swedish physicist,
and known as Holmgren’s test, which has long been in force in Sweden
and elsewhere. This system has, I am glad to say, been adopted by the
Board of Trade, and by most of the railway companies in the United
Kingdom. There have been numerous indications that this change of
method was necessary. Only within the last month (April, 1894), for
instance, I was informed by the Medical Officer who had to examine the
employés on a certain railway in Scotland by the Holmgren test that he
had found some, amongst others an engine-driver, who were colour blind,
and presumably unfit for the posts they occupied owing to this defect.

There is one popular objection which is always made against this
test, or indeed against any proper test, viz., that the examination
is not made under the same conditions which absolutely exist, nor
with the very lights which the candidates have to distinguish from
one another--that is, the red and green lights. Let me beg of you to
remark, that as a mere matter of guessing, the chances are equal that a
man would name the light shown correctly. If you turn a man’s back to
the light, and if he has a coin in his pocket and deliberately calls
heads red and tails green, he will have a good chance of passing the
test; for, if he guessed rightly three or four times, no one would
fail to pass him on his answers. The great point in a test is to cause
the candidate to _do something_ to show that he appreciates colour. It
is this _doing something_ and saying nothing which is the important
feature in the Holmgren test. A man may be ignorant of the names of
colours--colour ignorant it is called--but he cannot be ignorant of
the colours themselves if he has normal colour vision. As a matter
of fact, the colour blind may possibly distinguish between red and
green lights by having carefully noted, under ordinary conditions
of atmosphere, their different brightness, and by their difference
in saturation with their neutral colour. If external conditions are
altered, as they are in actual daily life, these slight indications
vanish, and the quick naming of the colour to be read becomes a mere
matter of chance. A proper test should include all variations that can
occur in these respects. It cannot be too strongly impressed upon every
one that a man who is colour blind to colours in ordinary daylight is
equally so in lamplight, although some shades of colour which are well
distinguishable by daylight may disappear when the artificial light is
used as the source of illumination.

Now, on what scientific principles should a colour test be founded? We
must hark back to a theory for