er-use of tobacco, aided by mental depression and a low state
of health. As we have no sumptuary laws, cases of tobacco blindness
must frequently occur, and it should be the care of all who have the
management of railways or shipping to take measures for preventing
persons suffering from this disease from occupying posts which require
perfect colour vision in order to prevent the possibility of loss of
life.

Congenital colour blindness can at once be discovered, and its
possessor be excluded from any post in which normal colour perception
is necessary, but with this type a single examination is no safeguard,
as it may be developed at any period of a man’s career. The disease
is, I believe, a progressive one, and at first is most generally
unrecognised, the deficiencies of vision being usually slight at its
commencement. It is very often brought to the notice of the sufferer
by finding he is unable to read. The words at first seem only slightly
indistinct, but later become undecipherable, and as time goes on he is
unable to even see the letters. He or his friends then usually think
it time to consult the specialist. In tobacco amblyopia the area of
insensibility is central, and it may subtend a very small angle or one
which covers a considerable portion of the field. I am not aware that
it ever extends over it all, but it very generally covers the yellow
spot. Now as the eye naturally receives the image on the centre of the
retina, it follows that, as the ability to distinguish some colours is
absent in that particular region, the patient is practically colour
blind, though he can distinguish them on most parts of the retina which
are not affected. As regards form vision, it was mentioned in the first
chapter that in a healthy eye it is much more acute at the centre
than towards the periphery, and instances were given of the angular
distances apart that black dots on a white ground were required to be
placed to allow their being seen as separate objects when the images
were received on the centre of the retina, and at the periphery. Sharp
definition may be said to be almost confined to 3° of angular distance
at the centre, and most probably this is a happy state of affairs, for
if we could see equally distinctly with the whole field of vision, the
mind would be distracted from the object which it wished primarily to
contemplate.

Bearing in mind the want of definition beyond 3°, and the
indistinctness caused by a diseased central area, it will not be
surprising to find that form vision in these cases is imperfect
throughout, though the colour perception outside such area may be
unimpaired. But, practically, men suffering from this disease are
colour blind to coloured objects, such as a signal light on a railway
or a ship’s light at sea. They may see that there is light at the
distant signal or on the bow of a vessel, but will be unable to
interpret correctly the colour. The colours which fail to make visual
impressions are the reds and greens. Some will distinguish yello