d the
background, and the continuance of the hue produced by the contrast.
This _retention_ may be psychological, but there are no grounds to my
mind for saying that its _production_ is due to the same cause, more
especially as experiments have been arranged to show that one eye may
see a contrast colour, whilst the other may see it of its uncontrasted
hue. In this last experiment it can scarcely be conceived that one eye
should be subject to delusion, whilst the other was free from it. If,
then, we may presume that they are real colours, the Young theory fails
to explain them, and the explanation offered by the Hering theory is
much more acceptable, as it propounds the idea that the retina has to
be considered as a whole, and that if (say) red light is at work at one
part its complementary colour (blue-green) must be felt at another.
It would be still more acceptable had it happened that the contrast
colours were truly complementary, and if the same action was noticeable
when the adjacent part of the retina was not also stimulated.

For what I may call the straightforward part of colour vision, dealing
with ordinarily bright colours, the Young theory is amply sufficient;
but when we come to the feeble luminosities and the colour fields,
it is again difficult to adapt to explain the phenomena observed.
When we reduce the luminosity of a coloured ray sufficiently we feel
the sensation of grey light: no colour is felt. Why is this? On the
Hering theory it is capable of the explanation that we have the white
sensation left unextinguished, but I fail to see any explanation on
the Young theory. When we take colour fields with pure colours (see
appendix, page 208), we are met with the unexplained difficulty that
the colour from a bright spot of light vanishes almost suddenly towards
the periphery of the retina, and is replaced by a bright _white_ light,
and that the extent of the field depends on the brightness of the
colour. This, perhaps, is the most telling observation which can be
recorded against the Young theory as it stands at present. It has this
support, however, in the _sequence_ of the phenomena observed, viz.,
when the boundary for the colour which we will suppose to be pure red
is being taken (as described at page 11), that close to the point where
it bursts into pure white, it assumes a pink colour (_i.e._, a mixture
of red and white), whilst, if the red be scarlet, containing according
to this theory a little green sensation, it becomes orange before
white, showing that the red sensation is dimmed slightly before the
green, and so with the other colours. What are called “after images”
I have not touched upon so far, nor shall I here, for it is at this
point that we step into very debateable ground. The colours perceived
in them are, as yet, not capable of being put to the test of physical
measurement, and I must leave the psychologist or the physiologist to
account for them in their own way.

Viewing the Hering theory from a physical standpoint, and in the light
o