ase. One feature, common, I understand,
to all, or nearly all, cases, is the presence of some disease of the
optic nerve. Defective sight--from loss of transparency of the cornea,
the crystalline lens, or other transparent parts of the eye--does not
interfere with the perception of colour; nor is true colour blindness,
as I am informed, well marked, if present at all, in disease limited
to the choroid and retina (see Fig. 1). Even in cases of the disease
of the optic nerve, medical authorities tell us that great differences
exist in the amount of colour defect, and that _although the colour
defect always goes along with some other serious visual loss, either
of form, light, or field_, the relation between these several factors
of the visual defect is by no means always the same, so far as can be
judged by the tests commonly used by ophthalmic surgeons. They tell us
that in some cases of disease of the optic nerve, colour vision when
tested by the wool test, which will be described shortly, may be almost
perfect, whilst the capacity for reading test letters of the alphabet
may be extremely bad, and _vice versâ_. It seems that in some cases
these discrepancies cannot be accounted for; but in others the facts
can be explained by the limitation of the disease to certain fibres of
the optic nerve. Thus, if those fibres which supply the yellow spot
region of the retina are alone involved, direct, or central, vision
will be much damaged both for form and colour, whilst a little further
from the centre of the field, the visual functions in such a case are
often quite normal. From what has been said in the opening chapters,
this will be understood to be that the colour vision is perfect, but
the definition of form more or less imperfect. We are told that cases
of this type have long been known and are comparatively common, and
often favourable as regards recovery; that the mischief may affect one
optic nerve, or both; that when both are diseased the malady is usually
due to the action of some toxic substance, and that of all substances
known to have this particular effect on the optic nerves tobacco is
the most important. I dwell a little on this variety--damage to form
and colour sense at the centre of the visual field of each eye from
limited, and usually curable, disease of the optic nerve--on account
of its interest to myself in the investigations I have made, and also
on account of the degree of practical importance which it assumes in
connection with the proper reading of signals and coloured lights.
These cases of “tobacco amblyopia,” as it is pathologically called,
are, of course, always found in men; and it may occasionally happen
that such a man, if an engine driver, signalman, or a look-out man on
board ship, may still see form sufficiently well to see his signals,
but may mistake their true colours. From evidence given before the
Committee of the Royal Society on Colour Vision, it appears that the
disease causing this type of colour blindness is usually produced by
the ov