 to say that even persons of
graver years are not unapt to be amused at what they consider to be a
shortcoming in their fellow-creatures. To the student of colour vision
the discovery of curious cases of colour deficiency is looked upon in a
very different light--a good case of colour blindness, or still better
one of monochromatic vision, is eagerly sought after, with the hope of
submitting it to a rigid examination. When we look at the diagram (Fig.
16) we shall find why it is that the colour blind describe the spectrum
as they do. Literally for those whose vision is dichromic, it is made
up of two sensations alone, and the colours to which these sensations
give rise are mixed throughout a large part of the spectrum, the pure
unmixed sensations being at each end of the spectrum as they are in
normal colour vision. The annexed diagram (Fig. 18) gives the curves
for a red-blind person as made by observations under Clerk Maxwell’s
directions. The standard colours here have been badly selected, for
one of them stimulates the two sensations possessed.

[Illustration: FIG. 18.]

An easy and instructive experiment can be made to give an idea of
the kind of colour that these colour blind imagine as white, whether
they be red-, green-, or violet-blind. (For those who have only
monochromatic vision, as before stated, white is coloured with the
one colour they possess.) Three slits are now in the spectrum, one
near the extreme end of the red, another well in the violet, and the
third in that part of the spectrum in which the green-blind see their
neutral colour (see page 66). With the three colours issuing from
these apertures a match is made with the white patch, and in this case
the match is made as seen from a distant point, so that the resulting
deductions may be true to the audience. If a colour-blind person be in
this theatre, he will agree with me that the match is as correct to him
as it is to myself and the rest of you. So far we could not distinguish
his colour perception from the normal, but if he be red-blind, and
the red slit be covered, he will still say that the match holds good,
for, as a matter of fact, the red with which we helped to build up the
white is non-existent to him. The white that he now sees is to us the
greenish-blue patch which the mixed violet and green make. If he be
a green-blind person he will tell us the colour is a very pale blue,
but when the green slit is covered up and the red uncovered, the match
will once more be correct, though the purple, formed by the mixture of
red and blue, will appear to him to be a little darker than the white.
This is what one would expect, for you must recollect this green in
the spectrum he would call white or grey. If then, from what to him is
also white, though formed by the rays coming through the three slits,
we take away a certain amount of degraded white (green to us), he must
still see white, but darker. We have, however, met with what is an
apparent paradox. The green, coming through the now covered slit, he