would give very different forms to these curves.
We cannot hope, for instance, that a red-blind who sees no red in the
extreme end of the spectrum would show any luminosity in that region,
nor that the green-blind should show as much in the green part of the
spectrum as those who possess normal colour vision, since one of the
sensations is absent. With monochromatic vision there should be a still
further departure from the normal curve. That these differences do
exist is fully shown in Fig. 19. One of the most striking experiments
in colour vision is to place a bright red patch on the screen, and to
ask a red-blind to make a match in luminosity with the white. The
latter will have to be reduced to almost darkness--a darkness, indeed,
that makes the match almost seem incredible. You will notice that the
places in the spectrum where the red- and green-blind see grey are
by no means places of greatest luminosity. We shall find that these
luminosity curves are suggestive when making another investigation into
the form of the spectrum curves of the colour sensations.

Besides cases of complete blindness due to the absence of one or two
sensations on the Young theory, we have other cases, as was said when
remarking on the percentage of people who are colour deficient, in
which one or even two sensations are only more or less deadened. It
has often been said that with the theory provisionally adopted, such
cases are difficult to class as red or green deficient. As far as my
own observations go, I have never found this difficulty. The luminosity
curves of such observers, combined with other indications, give a ready
means of classing them. The main difficulty to my mind is to state
what is normal colour vision, but, as I have found that the very large
majority of eyes give the same luminosity to colours as my own, I have
taken my own colour perception as normal. In numerous experiments which
Lord Rayleigh has made in matching orange by means of a mixture of
red and green, he has come across several who have apparently normal
vision, as they see colours correctly in every part of the spectrum,
and yet some require much less red mixed with the green to make a match
with the orange than do others. What is yellow to them is decidedly
green to the majority. This has been classed as another kind of normal
vision; but the luminosity curves show that it may be equally well due
to a deficiency in the green sensation, and which would require more
green to make the necessary match. The limits of the visible spectrum
to these persons, as far as my examination of their cases goes, are the
same as my own.

Again, there are others in which the spectrum seems decidedly somewhat
shortened at the red end compared with my own, and the luminosity
curves point to them as being strictly colour deficient in the red
and nothing else. As they see all colours, they have been classed as
another form of normal vision. The deficiency in both these cases is
so small that white is their neutral colour, but there is 