d recoiled from it with a
shock. He was in that state of tension which rejects the simple and
natural. He was either dreaming a wild dream, or he was face to face
with the supernatural. In his present extreme condition, both seemed
possible.

All at once it then occurred to Gamaliel that the clock had stopped.
Whatever had come upon him? Of course it was Friday evening, and for
the first time in forty years the hour for winding it up had gone by
unheeded. Almost savagely, so moved by a contemptuous anger was the
landlord against himself, he took the key in his feverish hands, and
strove to wind it up and set it again in motion. His attempts were
pitiful. The key refused to obey his faltering hand, and wandered
all over the face of the clock. The palsy of terror was already
communicated to his limbs.

The clock was wound at last. He set the pendulum again in motion, and
it recommenced sonorously to tick. Even then, however, the landlord was
no nearer the end of his suspense. He did not know how long the clock
had stopped, and in all the house it was the only thing he had to tell
the time by. Could anything have been more distracting or inopportune
than his forgetfulness?

By hook or by crook he must obtain the time. To be ignorant of it at
that hour was more than flesh and blood could endure. He would go
upstairs and ask the King.

In the greatest trepidation of body and spirit, he climbed the stairs.
When he got to the top he stood irresolutely, with his knuckles poised
against the chamber door. He felt that, even supposing the power was
vouchsafed him to knock upon the panels, he would still be unable to
address the King. His mouth was like a lime pit; his tongue stuck in
it, no longer susceptible of control.

He was physically incapable of addressing the King. He would try to ask
Lady Farnham. He knocked fiercely upon the door, for to do so with the
deliberation of cold blood was impossible. He was bidden to enter.

The landlord did not know how he got into the chamber. He was certainly
not conscious that it was by the agency of his feet. But suddenly he
found himself staring wide-mouthed at his guests, with never a word
to give them. They plainly expected one, yet his tongue stuck in his
mouth; he was unable to utter a syllable.

“Hath our Boniface seen a ghost?” said the King’s voice. “I declare
he hath the pallor and inanimation of death without the peace of it.
Speak, good fellow. What ails thee?”

The landlord quivered from head to foot, but speak he could not. The
King’s voice was the last straw. He tottered back against the wall.

“Oh, what doth ail the poor man?” said the compassionate 