ham lying in
the bed. The next, and the woman had flung herself passionately forward
and buried her head beside him among his pillows.

“Oh, my King, my King!” she cried, putting her arms about her husband’s
neck. “It were better you had died rather than this. It is indeed the
end!”

The soldiers stood off respectfully. The grief of the woman was so
piteous, that it pierced even their rude souls. Lady Farnham continued
to weep convulsively upon her husband’s neck, calling him by the King’s
name, and pouring forth the cries of her despair. Captain Culpeper, who
had never seen Charles, and had only the vaguest ideas of what he was
like, did not suspect that the real King stood, in a servant’s livery,
behind him. The woman’s actions in those tragic circumstances were so
in keeping with them, and to the unpractised eyes of the soldiers the
man in the bed was the only person in the room who could in the least
fulfil their ideas of what a monarch was like, that the deception, once
it was set up, was not difficult to maintain.

Charles, with an alertness of mind that seldom forsook him, grasped the
scheme as soon as the woman’s first words were uttered. He prepared to
do his part when the chance arose. If he could only get through the
throng of soldiers filling the room, the stairs, the kitchen below,
and the inn entrance, without exciting a breath of suspicion, all was
not yet lost. As he stood hemmed in at present, the feat appeared
impossible. But fortune had already taken a strange turn: he was as yet
unrecognised; he must maintain the demeanour of the carefully trained,
impassive servitor. Therefore, while the lady bewailed his fate and
clasped her husband in her arms, and the abashed soldiers stood off
a little to permit her to do so, he neither spoke a word nor moved a
limb, but kept well behind the Captain with respectful solicitude of
bearing.

Lord Farnham, who was not so nimble of wit as his wife and Charles, was
at first quite bewildered by the woman’s behaviour. Then, in a flash
it came into his heart that it was to save the King. She was prepared
to sacrifice the lives of them both that that of the monarch might be
spared. The thought was no sooner in his mind than it changed his blood
into fire. As the arms of his wife clung closer about his neck, he grew
possessed with only one aspect of what was required of him. She was
calling on him to save the life of the King at the cost of his own.

He was called on to give his own life for that of the one man in the
world he feared and hated most. In that first brief instant of time,
Charles Stuart was not the King to him, but the man who had dare