f luminosity, as the yellow spot absorption
is absent, and the difference in the heights of the ordinates between
the two curves will give us that absorption. Fig. 20 shows this very
well; and it will be noticed that the eye is appreciably not so
sensitive to the red and yellow at 10° from the axis as it is on its
central area. If we measure the areas of these two curves we get the
relative values of the light energy which is active on the two parts
of the eye, and these we found to be as 167 to 156. The heights at
which to put the maxima of the two curves were found from various
considerations, and the correctness of the deductions was verified by
directly comparing the intensities of two patches of white light some
10° apart, which, when looked at direct, were of equal intensities.
When one was compared with the other, the eye receiving one image
centrally and the other outside the yellow spot, the difference in
values was closely proportional to those of the above areas. The part
of this last curve showing a deficiency in red sensation is very
similar to that obtained from a person who is partially colour blind.
The absorption by the yellow spot derived from these measures is
graphically shown in the next figure (Fig. 21).

[Illustration: FIG. 20.]

[Illustration: FIG. 21.]

The question of the visual sensation at the “fovea centralis” (if it be
admitted that this is coincident with the visual axis of the eye, as is
usually accepted) may be very easily studied. When the luminosity of
the spectrum is examined at five or six feet distance, by throwing the
two patches on the whitened face of a small square of half-inch side,
we get a result differing from both of the above. The fovea appears
to be slightly more sensitive to red than the macula lutea, and is
generally less sensitive to the green rays (see Fig. 20). If a star,
or a distant light, be observed with the part of the retina, on which
the axis of the eye falls, as is the case in ordinary vision, and then
be observed with the eye slightly directed away, the difference in the
colours of the light is unmistakable. (The tables giving the measured
value of these curves will be found in the appendix, page 211.)

[Illustration: FIG. 22.]

Can we in any way find from these methods the colour sensation curves?
I think we can. Suppose we have a second instrument exactly like the
first placed side by side with it, we can then throw two patches of
colour on the two adjacent white surfaces, and we can mix with either,
or both of them, as much white light as we choose. From the second
instrument let us throw all the spectrum colours in succession on to
the one surface, and on to the other the three primary colours mixed in
such proportions as to match them accurately. This plan is, I venture
to think, a better way of obtaining the value of colours in terms of
standard colours than that adopted by Maxwell. This method gives the
values directly, and not by calculation from matches with white. Let
us place one slit near each