t does not occupy more than about 40° of the retina, the
movement of the eye will show a dark band travelling along the green,
blue, and violet regions as the image of these parts of the spectrum
fall on the yellow spot, and their apparent brightness will increase as
they fall outside the absorbing area. This proves that an absorption
takes place in this area.

[Illustration: FIG. 2.]

The retina consists essentially of an inner and outer wall, enclosing
matter which is similar to the grey matter of the brain. On the inner
wall are the vessels which are connected with the optic nerve. The
outer wall is epithelium coloured with a pigment, and it is here that
the visual impulses begin, although the rays of light giving rise
to them have to pass through the thickness of the retina before so
doing. It has already been stated that the light has to pass through
the thickness of the yellow spot before a visual sensation is felt in
the centre of the field, and the experiments just given offer a fair
proof of the truth of the assertion, but there is still another which
is perhaps more conclusive. Suppose we have a hollow reflecting ball,
as shown in Fig. 2, and through an orifice A we project a beam of light
to B, which meets an obstruction, S, in its path, then A B would be
reflected from B to C on a screen C F, and the obstruction S would be
marked at C. If another beam from D was directed so as to meet the same
obstruction, its presence would be marked at F. Knowing the distance
of the centre O of the hollow sphere from F C and its diameter, and
measuring the distance between F and C and their respective distances
from the axis of the sphere, the distances S B and S E can be
calculated. This method is applied in the formation of what are known
as Purkinje’s figures. The simplest case is where a beam of light is
directed through the sclerotic and transmitted through the lens. Images
of the retinal vessels are distinguished as at S, and it is found that
they cast shadows, which are seen as dark lines in the glare of the
field of vision. The sensation of light must therefore come from behind
these vessels, and calculation shows that the seat of the sensation is
close to the pigmented inner wall of the retina.

Lying here is a layer of what are known as rods and cones, which have
a connection, either actual or functional, with the optic fibres which
largely compose the inner wall of the retina, and are connected with
the optic nerve. In the yellow spot the cones are much more numerous
than the rods, but in the peripheral part the reverse is the case. In
the fovea the rods appear to be altogether absent. The total number
of cones in the eye has been calculated to be about 3,000,000, of
which about 7,000 are in the small fovea. The number of cones will
give an idea of their dimensions. This detail has been entered into
as it has been supposed that these rods and cones are all-important
in translating light-waves into visual impulses. The inner wall of
the retina of most human eyes, as