ons would have upon the colour vision of
the individual. The probabilities, however, against two of the three
sensations being absent must evidently be very much smaller than that
there should be an absence of only one of the sensations, either red,
green, or violet.

[Illustration: FIG. 16.]

It will be well that we should also have before us the theory which is
the only serious rival to that of Young, viz., that of Hering. In the
report of the Colour Vision Committee there is an excellent description
of this theory. As it was furnished by Dr. Michael Foster, we may
be sure that the ideas of its originator are correctly given, and
therefore I will quote it in his words:--

“Another theory, that of Hering, starts from the observation that when
we examine our own sensations of light we find that certain of these
seem to be quite distinct in nature from each other, so that each is
something _sui generis_, whereas we easily recognise all other colour
sensations as various mixtures of these. Thus, the sensation of red and
the sensation of yellow are to us quite distinct; we do not recognise
anything common to the two, but orange is obviously a mixture of red
and yellow. Green and blue are equally distinct from each other and
from red and yellow, but in violet and purple we recognise a mixture
of red and blue. White again is quite distinct from all the colours in
the narrower sense of that word, and black, which we must accept as a
sensation, as an affection of consciousness, even if we regard it as
the absence of sensation from the field of vision, is again distinct
from everything else. Hence the sensations caused by different kinds
of light or by the absence of light, which thus appear to us quite
distinct, and which we may speak of as ‘native’ or ‘fundamental’
sensations, are white, black, red, yellow, green, blue. Each of these
seems to us to have nothing in common with any of the others, whereas
in all other colours we can recognise a mixture of two or more of
these. This result of common experience suggests the idea that these
fundamental sensations are the primary sensations, concerning which
we are enquiring. And Hering’s theory attempts to reconcile, in some
such way as follows, the various facts of colour vision with the
supposition that we possess these six fundamental sensations. The six
sensations readily fall into three pairs, the members of each pair
having analogous relations to each other. In each pair the one colour
is complementary to the other--white to black, red to green, and yellow
to blue. Now, in the chemical changes undergone by living subjects, we
may recognise two main phases, an upward constructive phase, in which
matter previously not living becomes living, and a downward destructive
phase, in which living matter breaks down into dead or less living
matter. Adopting this view, we may, on the one hand, suppose that rays
of light, differing in their wave-length, may affect the chemical
changes of the visual substance in different ways, some