 the screen indicates
a wide area as being affected, so that the image still lies within
the diseased retinal area. In some instances the colours named will
vary very considerably; sometimes, for instance, a red will be named
as grey, and then immediately after as pale red. This is generally
due to the diseased area being small, and a very slight change in the
direction of the axis of the eye causes it to be seen in nearly its
true colour, part being viewed with the diseased and part with the
healthy portion of the retina. With the wool test, which we shall
describe later, it is the commonest thing possible for colour-blind
persons who have a central scotoma to match accurately the different
test-skeins, for the reason that the images of the skeins of wool are
so large that they are received on the parts of the retina which are
not diseased. These same colours, however, if presented to them in
small patches, will inevitably show the defect in vision.

With this end in view, I have had a set of brick-clay pellets some
3/16-inch in diameter, painted with water-colours mixed with soluble
glass solution of the same colours as the wools. These are placed in
a shallow tray, and presented to patients affected with this central
colour blindness to pick out all the pellets which match reds and
greens. They will tell you that they see neither one nor the other,
though they will pick out the blue pellets unerringly. A red pellet
they will match with a red, green, grey, or a brown one, and a green
one with the same. If, however, you instruct them to direct their eyes
a few degrees away from the tray, they will tell you they see all the
colours, and as they endeavour to pick them out, they, with a natural
instinct, direct their eyes again to the collection, when once more
the colours vanish. It is almost piteous sometimes to see the distress
which this simple test occasions. The sight of the colours for an
instant and their immediate disappearance in the cases that I have
tried, seem indicative of something terrible, for they usually have no
idea of the cause of this (to them almost miraculous) phenomenon. I
have seen these colour blind tested with a pair of ordinary bull’s-eye
lanterns, placed side by side, with diaphragms of moderate size with
coloured glasses, which can be changed at will, in front. At twelve
feet distance they will often see both lights as one, but as they
approach they will make out two lights and call them both white, or
sometimes they will make a guess and call a green red, or _vice versâ_.
It goes without saying that such eyesight is useless for reading
signals, and indeed for any purpose whatever. Sometimes, but I believe
this is rare, no colour whatever can be distinguished.




CHAPTER XII.


I will now give in full the result of the examination of a patient who
was suffering from tobacco blindness. X., aged thirty-six, a commercial
traveller, was suffering from rather severe tobacco amblyopia. The
scotoma was a very marked one, and the loss of colour se