rofessed his
ignorance of the charge. The landlord grew furious.

“Do you give the lie to my ears and eyes?” he cried.

The serving-man merely replied by a look of profound indifference.
To the angry and astonished landlord, it seemed to amount almost to
contempt. Will Jackson appeared to consider that his denial was enough.
He neither entered into the merits of the matter, nor took the trouble
to soften the force of his affirmation.

Gamaliel had never been so nonplussed in his life. He had proof
positive that his serving-man had been out in the night, and that
he was intimately acquainted with the woman upstairs. Yet here he
audaciously denied all knowledge of her.

“By God, sirrah!” cried the landlord, “I will see to it that you hang
before a week is out, as an aider and abettor of proscribed Royalists
fleeing the country, if you persist in this most abominable falsehood.”

The serving-man shrugged his shoulders. He still seemed to have
a perfect indifference to the landlord’s threats. And, indeed,
Master Gamaliel fumed and browbeat in vain. It was precious little
satisfaction he got out of the lumpish Will Jackson.

He breakfasted upon the matter. Coming to review it afterwards, he did
but grow more firm in his conviction that the woman and his drawer had
something more to conceal than he had at first suspected. At last he
decided to confront them face to face. First, he sent up his son with
a message to the lady’s chamber. Would she step down immediately to
his father, as he desired to speak with her on a matter of the first
importance? Her fear of the landlord was now so great, that she lost
not an instant in complying with his demand.

Will Jackson was already submitting to another interrogatory from his
master, when she came whitely and wearily down the stairs. The cunning
landlord had contrived that their meeting should be in his presence.
They should have no chance to pre-arrange an ignorance of one another.
He now observed their demeanour with a devilish intentness, and he
could swear he saw a sudden swift flush dart across the woman’s face
and a hunted, hungry look of fear spring in her eyes the moment her
gaze alighted on Will Jackson.

As for that clod-like servitor, he was just as imperturbable as ever.
Not by the relaxing of a muscle did he betray that he had encountered
the woman before. The landlord admitted to himself that such a studied
stolidity was remarkable. The fellow made respectfully to withdraw on
the woman’s appearance.

“Not so,” said his master, roughly. “I would have you stay here,
sirrah. You shall be condemned out of the mouth of your accomplice.”

H