nge. The relative brightness of the two colours mixed together can
be shown by removing the lens which recombines the spectrum to form the
patch of light. Each colour issues through its slit and forms its own
patch on a white screen which, for the purpose, we make rather larger
than usual. The two patches overlap in the middle (Fig. 8), and the
pure colours are seen one on each side of the mixed colours.

[Illustration: FIG. 8.]

Now, placing one slit in the yellow and another in the blue of the
spectrum, we find that whatever width of slit we take, no green is
produced, but that, in fact, a yellowish or a bluish white results,
and that when the two slits are properly adjusted, a pure white is
produced. Evidently since none of the intermediate spectrum colours
between the blue and the yellow can be made by their mixture, certainly
green cannot. Hence, with pure colours a green and not a yellow is one
of the primaries.

Further investigation on these lines has placed the violet of the
spectrum as a primary rather than the blue, but this is still a matter
of debate. Suffice it to say that a red and a green in the spectrum are
really two of the primary colours, and most probably the violet the
third. Experiment shows that there is no other primary colour in the
strict sense of the word. We thus arrive at the fact that, except the
primary colours themselves, every colour in nature may be made by a
mixture of two or three of these primaries.

Just a word of explanation as to why, with pigments, the primary
colours appear to be red, yellow, and blue, and not red, green, and
blue. The colour of a pigment, it must be recollected, is a complex
one. If we analyse a yellow--a yellow glass will be just as good an
example as anything else--we find it is made up of green, yellow,
orange, and red. A blue is made up of blue and green. If a yellow is
placed behind a blue glass, and we look at a white surface through
them, the only light that can get through the glass is the green. If
the light, coming through each glass _separately_, falls on the same
spot on a white surface, it will be either colourless or bluish white,
or yellowish white, whichever colour preponderates. As the light
reflected from mixed pigments is made up principally by the light
coming through the different particles, first coming through one and
then through another, and only partially by mixed lights, it will be
gathered why the primary colour, when deduced from experiments with
pigments, was yellow, and not green.

With the spectrum colours there is this fact to remember, that
though all intermediate colours between the pairs of primaries can be
formed by their mixture, yet in some cases the resulting colours are
_slightly_ diluted with white, and that they thus appear less saturated
than the spectrum colours themselves. The reason for this we shall be
able to account for when we consider the colour sensations themselves.

When making matches to simple or other colours by the method of
mixtures, we have to be caref