 in the orange. They
must match every colour with some shade of grey, for they will only
perceive that sensation, in what to ordinary normal eyes is white.
We need not detail how those who possess monochromatic vision due to
some other sensation would describe the different colours. The diagram
will tell us. Suffice it to say, that one colour will only differ from
another and from white in brightness.

It is a very remarkable fact how many people who are defective in
colour vision pass through a good part of their lives without being
definitely aware of it. It is very doubtful whether, in the majority
of cases, they themselves discover it. They may quite possibly
attribute the descriptions of colour which they hear, and which appear
to them absolutely false or meaningless, as due to mental or moral
defects in their friends. I have had two cases of this recently. One
was a gentleman of seventy-four, who had no conception that he had
anything but normal colour vision; his daughters, however, had a
suspicion that something was not quite right in it, and after a good
deal of persuasion brought him to me to examine. The first mistake
that he made was to state that he was sitting on a black velvet
chair, whereas the seat was a deep crimson plush. He laughed at his
daughter’s description of the mistake he made, and declared he was only
colour ignorant, and that she was the one who was colour blind. The
examination showed that colour ignorant he was, but that the ignorance
was due to complete red-blindness. For the seventy-four years he had
lived he was unaware of his deficiency, suspecting it in others, and
it was only an accidental circumstance which made him acquainted with
the true state of his colour perception. Another elderly gentleman,
in a high position in life, was also accidentally tested, and he
proved to be completely green-blind. He, too, was quite unaware of
his defect, and protested that, yachtsman as he was, he would never
mistake a ship’s lights; but a very brief test showed his friends
who were with him that his declaration had to be received with a
certain amount of reservation. Others there are who certainly do know
that some peculiarity exists in their sense of colour, and, foolish
as it may appear to be--though, after all, it is quite consistent
with a sensitive nature--they have tried to hide their defect from
their fellow-creatures. Such examples, no doubt, some of my audience
have met with, and experience tells me that they have just as much
reluctance to pass an hour in my darkened room as they would have to
occupy a police cell. In those few cases that have come voluntarily
to me for examination, the peculiarity in colour sense was first
brought to notice by the patient--if patient I may call him--failing
to distinguish between cherries and the cherry leaves, or strawberries
and the strawberry leaves. Such mistakes committed publicly are usually
the source of unbounded merriment and curiosity to schoolboys when made
by their schoolfellows, and I am bound