evidence
that the hues are slightly changed. I do not wish any one to accept
my deductions as being more correct than those who hold differently,
but the results of examination by the luminosity methods appear to
me difficult to reconcile with any other view. There are, however, a
large number of cases in which, though complete red- or green-blindness
is wanting, there is no doubt that more than slight colour deficiency
exists. For instance, in Fig. 23 we have the curve of luminosity of
the spectrum as measured by a very acute scientific observer, and it
is compared with that of normal colour vision. He certainly is not
completely blind to any sensation. An inspection and comparison of
the two curves will show that he is defective in the green sensation,
although it is present to a large extent. The deficiency is obvious
enough. An endeavour to find his neutral point was most interesting.
At 39 in the scale he saw a little colour, but at 39·5 all colour
had vanished, and between the coloured patch and the white he saw no
difference. This similarity he saw till 47·3 in the scale, when he
began to see a faint trace of colour. There is a large piece of the
spectrum, then, which to him is grey. It must be recollected that
all three sensations were excited in this region, but some more than
others. Now, experiment has shown that, with normal vision, two per
cent. of any colour may be mixed with a pure colour without its being
perceived. It is not surprising, therefore, that although the red,
or the green, or the blue may be present in an intensity above that
required to form white, yet the resulting sensation should pass for
white. It may be remarked that red and white when mixed he never
mistook for yellow, and he always recognised yellows and red; yellowish
green, however, he called pale yellow.

[Illustration: FIG. 23.]

Another example of partial red-blindness is also instructive. Fig. 23
also shows it graphically. There is no doubt as to the nature of the
defect. The spectrum is slightly shortened, and the luminosity of this
part of the spectrum is less than that of normal vision. There was no
difficulty in distinguishing every colour, though the positions of
the colours from yellow to green seemed to be shifted; but no neutral
point could be traced. Apparently, both this case and the former are
about equally colour defective; but in this last the same reasons do
not apply for the existence of a neutral point. (For measures see page
214.)




CHAPTER VII.


We are now in a position to carry the investigations as to luminosity
a little further. When we look at small patches of light, we view the
colour through the yellow spot in the eye. If, when we have matched the
luminosity in the ordinary manner, we turn our eyes some 10° away from
the patches, we shall find that except at one place in the green the
equality in brightness no longer exists. By a little practice we can
make matches of luminosity when the eyes are thus diverted. This will
give us a different curve o