nd
examination showed that their vision was identical. Mr. Nettleship
has kindly given me the following particulars regarding them:--“Their
acutes of vision (form vision) in ordinary daylight is only one-tenth
of the normal. A younger sister and brother are idiotic and almost
totally blind, and in one of these the optic nerves show clear
evidence of disease. Hence, the colour blindness of P. and Q. must
almost without doubt be considered as the result of disease, perhaps
ante-natal, involving some portion of the visual apparatus.” A lack
of acuteness of vision would be expected from the small amount of
light they perceive compared with normal vision. The fact that two of
a family, not twins, possess exactly the same colour sense, and that
their extinction curves are entirely different to those suffering from
post-natal disease, but similar to those of normal vision, point to
their colour blindness as falling in the same general category as that
of the congenital type. To this I shall refer again.

[Illustration: FIG. 32.]

We may reason still further. With the red- and green-blind the violet
sensation is still present, and we may therefore expect that their
extinction curves, and consequently their persistency curves, should
be alike, and should also agree with that made from your lecturer’s
observations. A study of Figures 32 and 33 will tell you that such is
practically the case. The former shows the luminosity, the persistency,
and the extinction curves of a completely red-blind subject, and the
latter the same curves for a green-blind subject (see pages 223 and
224). Both were excellent observers, and their examination was easy,
owing to the acquaintance with scientific methods. The accuracy of
their results may be taken as unquestionable. Each of them may be taken
as a representative of their own particular type of colour blindness.
There is an agreement between them at the violet end, but a deviation
at the red end of the spectrum. The general form of the curves
indicates that the same sensation is extinguished last in all. Now,
have we any other criterion to offer? We have. In the first instance,
we have the violet-blind person to compare with the others, and also
another observer who had monochromatic vision, but whose sensation
was different to that of the two monochromatic cases we have so far
brought to your notice. We have already stated the peculiarities in
colour nomenclature of the violet-blind case. His curve of luminosity
for the spectrum was taken (page 227), and when compared with the
curve of normal luminosity, it became evident that in the red and up
to the orange his measures were those which a normal eye would make;
but that the luminosity fell off in the green, and finally disappeared
to an immeasurable quantity in the violet (see Fig. 30, curves M and
F). If his measures of spectrum luminosity are deducted from those of
the normal eye, and the ordinates be increased proportionately to make
the maximum difference 100, the figure so produced, when 