compared with
the _luminosity_ curve obtained from the monochromatic observers, was
found to be the same, and consequently with the persistency curves
above referred to. Endeavours were made to gain a good extinction
curve, but the results were not as successful as could be desired; but
it was ascertained that, without doubt, his most persistent sensation
was not more than 1/180 as lasting as that of the normal eye, or to put
it in another way, his green at E was only extinguished when the energy
falling on his eye was 180 times greater than that at which it vanished
with the normal eye. This plainly teaches us that the missing sensation
was that which, when present, is ordinarily the most persistent.

The next is a case of monochromatic vision, which differs from those
previously brought before you, and I cannot do better than describe it
in the words which General Festing and myself employed in our paper in
the “Philosophical Transactions.”

[Illustration: FIG. 33.]

The patient (B. C.) had been examined by Mr. Nettleship, who kindly
secured his attendance at South Kensington for the purpose of being
examined by the spectrum and other tests. [Mr. Nettleship states
that this case is without doubt a genuine case of congenital colour
blindness, without any trace whatever of disease.] B. C. is a youth
of 19, who has served as an apprentice at sea. His form vision is
perfect, and he is not night blind. He can see well at all times,
though he states that on a cloudy day his vision seemed to be slightly
more acute than in sunshine. He was first requested to make matches
with the Holmgren wools in the usual manner, with the result that he
was found to possess monochromatic vision. He matched reds, greens,
blues, dark yellows, browns, greys, and purples together; and it was a
matter of chance if he selected any proper match for any of the test
colours. Finally, when pressed, he admitted that the whole of the heap
of wools were “blue” to him, any one only differing from another in
brightness. The brighter colours he called “dirty” or “pale” blue,
terms which eventually proved to be synonymous. We then examined
him with patches of monochromatic spectrum colours by means of the
colour patch apparatus. He designated every colour as “blue,” except a
bright yellow, which he called white, but when the luminosity of this
colour was reduced he pronounced it a good blue. So with white, as the
illumination was decreased, he pronounced it to pass first into dirty
blue, and then into a full blue.

Colour discs were then brought into requisition, and it was hard at
first to know how to make the necessary alterations, owing to the terms
he employed to express the difference which existed between the inner
disc and the outer grey ring. By noting that a pale “blue” passed into
a pure blue when the amount of white in the outer ring was diminished,
and that the inner disc was described as “pale” or “dirty” when the
outer ring was described as “a very full blue,” 