 one is shown as the extinction for the centre of the eye,
and the other of the whole eye. Of course the former observations were
made by looking direct at the spot. This may appear a very easy matter,
but it is not really so simple as it sounds. It is curious how little
control there is over the absolute direction of the eyes when the
light has almost disappeared. The axes of the eyes are often directed
to quite a different point. When the extinction for the whole eye is
made, the readings are really much easier, as then the eye roams where
it likes, and a final disappearance is noted. When the eye has once
been invested with a roving commission, it is hard to control it. In
making these observations it was therefore advisable to have data for
the first branch of the curve, before commencing to observe for the
later. The main cause of difference between the two branches of the
curve is due to the absorption by the yellow spot.

It might be thought that with the curves (Fig. 28) before us, we have
learnt all we can regarding the extinction of light, but is it so?
Surely we ought to know something as to the reduction necessary for
extinction of the different parts of the spectrum when they are all of
equal luminosities and of ordinary brightness.

We arrive at this by simple calculation. Supposing we have two
luminosities, _one double the other_, it does not require much thought
to find out that you have to reduce the greater luminosity twice as
much as the other in order for it to be just extinguished. In other
words, if we multiply the extinction by the luminosity, we get what we
want. Now, in the curves before us, we have taken the luminosity of the
yellow light near D as one amyl-acetate lamp, and that has a height
in the curve showing the spectrum luminosity very closely approaching
100. We may, therefore, multiply the extinctions of a ray by the value
of its ordinate in the luminosity curve and divide the result by 100,
and this will give us the extinction of each colour, supposing it had
the luminosity of an amyl-acetate lamp. A portion of the curve so
calculated is shown in the same diagram (Fig. 28) as a dotted line. It
appears at the violet end as an approximately horizontal line, and then
starts rapidly upwards, and would, if carried on to the same scale,
reach far out of the diagram; but at the extreme red it would be found
to bend and again become horizontal. I would have you notice that the
same is true not only for the extinction observed with the centre of
the eye through the yellow spot, but also for the whole eye. Such
straight, horizontal parts of the curve must mean something.

[Illustration: FIG. 30.]

In the diagram (Fig. 16) of colour sensations we see that in each
of these two regions there is but one sensation excited, viz. the
violet and the red. Now, if these sensation curves mean anything, the
reduction necessary to produce the extinction of the same sensation
when equally stimulated should prove to be the same, for there is
no reason to the contra