 lamb: Nature has her marvellous compensations; she takes the
grossness from the animal spirit, that it may be insensible to the
throes of death.

About one o’clock of the wintry morning the landlord rose from his
chair, and had recourse to paper, a pen, and ink. He solemnly made his
will. For the keeper of a sea tavern on a lonely coast, the home of
the pirate and the smuggler, he had done excellently well in trade.
He had added thrift to a natural aptitude. His money had not all been
come by honestly, as the world interpreted that word. But that did not
irk the landlord. All his life he had never pretended to a conscience.
To him it was the hallmark of a superficial mind. And now in his last
extremity he would not pretend to one. It was to be the great triumph
of his life, that in his last hour he should prove to be stronger than
he had ever judged himself to be. He would yield up his life calmly,
without a snuffle, a whine, or a prayer.

About two o’clock he had signed his name with controlled fingers to
this document. He sanded it carefully and put it by. He had hardly done
so, when he jumped up suddenly from his chair. An old stab returned
upon him; he felt a twinge of the old agony. After all, there was a
chance of life. Suppose the pursuing soldiers retook the King! They
would be then in a mood to overlook all, and they might permit him to
live! The landlord cursed himself for the thought. God! was he going to
be tortured again before he was allowed to perish? No, it was only the
last twinge of an expiring nerve. The pain passed almost in an instant.
He need not be afraid.

Towards three, the old man grew very cold. He had forgotten to
replenish the fire. It had gone out hours ago, leaving the ashes
grey. He was getting tired; the soldiers were a long time coming; he
would try to go to sleep. Soon a pleasant lassitude stole upon his
weariness. He had never been so exquisitely tired in his life before.
It had been a heavy day; he had taken a lot out of himself; he deserved
a rest. He fell asleep.

A little after four o’clock he awoke suddenly out of a dreamless
slumber, as one startled. He lifted up his ears and listened. Horses!
He rubbed his eyes in bewilderment. Why should he be sleeping there,
and why should these signs invade the middle of the night? Ah yes, to
be sure, he remembered! The soldiers were coming back.

His first thought was, had they caught the King? He banished it
instantly. He had got past all that before he went to sleep. He would
not go back, otherwise the last twenty-four hours had been lived in
vain. He listened calmly for their near approach, but he still kept
his chair by the si