o turn for a meal in these troublous times. I pray you, have
a little pity for one who hath been accustomed to fill his belly, and
to sleep in comfort and security.”

“In a bridewell, I do not doubt,” said the grim Gamaliel.

“Nay, master, there you wrong me,” said the vagrant. “Few have
followed a more reputable course than I.”

The landlord looked at him piercingly. After all, his mind might be a
little better than his appearance. His speech was hardly so rustic as
one would expect.

“What hath been your station in life?” asked Gamaliel. “And what hath
brought you to this pass?”

“It is but a few weeks since I was serving-man to my Lord Wilmot,” said
the other, hesitatingly.

“Why did you quit his service?” the landlord demanded.

“’Twas a stroke of evil fortune, master. My lord was too good a friend
to poor King Charles Stuart. He is now fleeing o’er hill and dale for
his life, with devil a serving-man to attend him.”

The landlord listened greedily. In a flash a very bright idea
illuminated his mind.

“Have you ever seen this Charles Stuart?” he demanded, almost
breathlessly.

“Have I!” laughed Lord Wilmot’s servitor. “Why, master, I am more
familiar with King Charles than I am with my own mother. He and my lord
were hand in glove together. Many’s the time I have filled the King’s
cup, and listened to his voice. There never was so jovial and kind a
gentleman. Why, master, he hath even spoken to me by my name.”

The landlord could hardly conceal his great excitement.

“Then, of course, sirrah,” said he, “you would recognise this Charles
Stuart at once if you saw him?”

“Why, master,” said the fellow, “I know him as well as I know the nose
on my face.”

That was enough for the landlord. He engaged him at once in the dual
capacity of drawer and ostler. And so excited was the good Gamaliel,
that he forgot or overrode the accumulated instincts of a lifetime.
He did not even attempt to beat him down a farthing in the matter of
wages. For was it not a truly providential thing, that on that of all
nights, in that of all seasons, a man should walk into his kitchen who
would be able so readily to resolve his difficulties? He might have
searched the breadth of Dorset, and yet have not discovered a person
capable of giving an opinion on the identity of Charles Stuart. Fortune
was on his side indeed.

No sooner had the details of his employment been agreed upon, and this
somewhat uncouth-looking serving-man had passed into the hands of a new
master, than the landlord in a moment of unwonted generosity bade his
son fetch the fellow half a pint