arded
by so fair a Cerberus. After much hard thinking, Master Gamaliel
had recourse to a stratagem--an extreme one, it is true, but highly
necessary in this present pass.

Rising from his comfortable posture by the fire with a reluctance that
made the act heroic, the landlord went forth to the stable, and bade
Will Jackson follow him. He procured a ladder there. He had it borne
without, and, under cover of the darkness, reared it with caution
against the sill of the window of his guests. Drawn shutters guarded
the window; but, as Gamaliel was well aware, they lacked some two
inches of the top of the casement. A thread of candle-light shone
through the chink. The work of a spy was therefore not likely to be
difficult.

Ordering Will Jackson to hold his peace and also at the same time to
hold the ladder, the eager old landlord, infirm as he was, first
climbed to the top himself to discover how the land lay. No night-thief
could have been more astutely skilful. It is true he scaled the ladder
in a gingerly manner, but never a sound did he make. Planting his feet
firmly on the highest rung but one, he cocked his cunning eyes over the
top of the shutter, and was rewarded by a clear view of the chamber,
and the unhappy persons there immured.

It was a piece of good fortune that the bed was facing the window.
The landlord was the better able to regard its occupant. He was half
prepared to discover that the young man was the victim of no malady
whatsoever. He would not be surprised to find him quite hale and
hearty. Nay, so little faith had he in this young man’s condition,
that should he prove to have left the chamber secretly already, and
gone away in stealth, he was not likely to be astounded. It so befell,
however, that the landlord had no grounds for his suspicions. For there
confronting him the sufferer lay. By the mellow light of the candles
he saw him prone in the bed, as ghastly as death. He was wide awake,
but lay with glazed eyes and a face convulsed with agony. The woman was
binding a cloth steeped in water about his forehead.

In spite of the night’s bitterness, the landlord had so intense an
interest in that which was passing before his eyes, that he betrayed
no desire to leave his perch for the present. Looking down upon these
unconscious persons from his high situation, he felt fairly secure from
discovery. And was it not exhilarating to see without being seen! He
must contrive to hear too. A chance phrase might reveal their identity.

Thus, notwithstanding that poor Will Jackson was shivering in the cold
below, the landlord took his jackknife from his pocket and began to
whittle away a piece of the woode