 of small ale.

“Now sit ye here, my lad,” said Gamaliel, “and let me hear about this
Charles Stuart. But I think we might get on better if first I had your
name.”

“My name is William Jackson,” said the serving-man, “but they call me
Will for short.”

“Will Jackson, is it?” said the landlord. “Humph! I think as little of
the name as I do of the bearer. But for the present we will let that
pass. Now tell me of this Charles Stuart. What kind of a person might
you call him?”

“Oh, master, a grand man indeed!” said Will Jackson, with a fine air of
enthusiasm. “A rare noble gentleman.”

“Humph!” said Gamaliel, “I have my doubts about it--the Popish dog! But
what doth he look like?”

“A wonderful handsome fellow, master,” the earnest William said. “Every
woman that he looks upon just languishes for love of him, they say.”

“Can you recall his features at all?” the landlord asked. “Is he a
black man or a light man? A tall man or a small man? Come, trim your
memory.”

“Well, do you know, master,” said Will Jackson, with a sly laugh,--“do
you know, master, they do say that his gracious Majesty is most
remarkable like me. I’ve heard say that we’re as like as two peas,
master, and that we might be brothers, as it were.”

“Confound the rogue!” cried the landlord, laughing, in spite of
himself, at the fellow’s impudence. “A pretty sort of likeness you’d
be, I reckon, to discover a king by! I suppose, you ragged, dirty
scoundrel, that some wench hath caressed your self-esteem with this
fair parallel to coax an extra groat or two. A mighty fine king you’d
make, wouldn’t you?”

“Well, master, if you please, more than one wench hath told me so,”
said Will Jackson.

His master shook his fist at him, and threatened to cuff his ear. But
the fellow in his own mind seemed so certain that he bore a striking
resemblance to the King, that he appeared quite unable to divine the
source of Gamaliel’s mirth. For the landlord fell to laughing until
he nearly wept over the perplexed gravity of his drawer. Whatever
the intolerable impudence of the assumption, Will Jackson certainly
appeared not to regard it in the light of a jest. To him it seemed
rather a circumstance from which he extracted a highly legitimate pride.

Even as the landlord talked with his servitor he made up his mind
that he would lose no time in making the utmost possible use of Will
Jackson’s special knowledge. He must see the young man with the
incurable disease at once. But how could it be contrived? That matter
was not so easy. It seemed hopeless to gain access to a domain gu