considered, the act of a madman. It was so
entirely opposed to reason; never before had he been blind to its
dictates.

He called for his fifth glass of hot rum-and-water. By God! if he could
not do it sober, he would do it drunk! To think that he was throwing
away a fortune without the least reason for doing so! Again he got up
and began to hobble unsteadily about the kitchen floor. He began to
pant, to gasp; the sweat poured out of him, although the weather was
still bitterly cold. Was he the master of his own mind, or was he not?
That was what the whole thing amounted to. Had he lived to be sixty ere
he put that question for the first time? But he would answer it.

Yes; he would answer it. He tossed off the sixth glass. The tremor was
not quite so distinct in his brain. He felt a little stronger. He must
stiffen every nerve of his resolution. Never mind the sweat shining on
his forehead, his agitated breast, or his trembling flabby hands. He
was slowly getting his teeth upon the bit; he was getting some control
over this strange insanity.

The seventh glass, and he triumphed. It was a hard-won struggle; none
harder. But at last, as the shadows of the wintry evening came stealing
down the rocks, and Cicely lit the first candle, the struggle came to
an end. Each individual nerve in Gamaliel’s body rioted within him; he
was as unsubstantial as pulp; but at last his resolution was running
clear and strong. The little flickering tremor that had a thousand
times routed it and put it to shame was now dead. Hot rum-and-water had
ultimately done its business. The crisis was past. He was master of
himself after all.

In a voice so hoarse it resembled the croak of a raven, he summoned his
son a second time.

“Joseph,” he said, “I want you to go now. Go speedily. Time presses;
the business is very urgent. And when you come to Captain Culpeper,
tell him to make all haste. It is now a little after four o’clock; at a
little after eight he and his men should be at the door. Be a good lad
now. Do not tarry an instant, and your old father’s fortune is made,
likewise your own.”

Joseph listened to the low, excited utterance of the landlord in a
purely mechanical manner. He was neither uplifted nor depressed; he
was neither surprised nor disappointed. He took the sealed paper once
more in his hands, and stepped out without a word into the sea-broken
silence of the wintry evening. A little afterwards his horse was out of
the stable, and he rode away.

The landlord still hobbled up and down the inn kitchen, until he heard
the hoofs of the horse die away in the distance. He then sat down in
his chair by the fireside for