lady. “Look
how his eyes stare, and see how the sweat pours from him! And he can
scarce stand upon his legs. I am sure it is some grievous malady. Can
it be poison, thinkest thou?”

“Speak, good landlord,” said the King. “What doth ail thee?”

The King’s voice was utterly too much for the landlord. His struggles
to speak ended in his shaking a few harsh sobs out of his dry throat.
He then began to whimper like a child.

His three auditors stared at him with looks of genuine pity and alarm.

“I declare,” said the King, “I never saw anybody so overcome before.
Something must be done for the poor fellow. I think we had better
summon his son.”

The mention of his son’s name acted on the landlord in much the same
manner as a spark upon a keg of gunpowder. The process of cause and
effect was far too swift to be at all related in the unhappy Gamaliel’s
subsequent consciousness; but almost before he recalled upon what
errand his son had gone, his tongue was released, and words flowed from
it in a torrent.

“The soldiers! the soldiers!” he cried. “The soldiers are coming, your
Majesty!”

The landlord knew so little of what he was saying, that he was half
stunned to find his three auditors looking at him so wildly.

“What is this you say, landlord?” said the King.

In the circumstances, the King’s voice struck with such a peculiar
languor upon Gamaliel’s ear, that it acted like a sedative upon his
nerves. There never was a better illustration of the force of example
upon a weak mind. Had the King and his companions ranted and raved,
and called for their cloaks and their horses, the landlord would
inevitably have fallen upon his knees and craved forgiveness of them.
Yet, startled as they were, since they still retained the composure of
good breeding, and the young King, probably with some little bravado,
heightened his natural diffidence because his own safety was involved,
the landlord was acted upon powerfully by their demeanour. Their
composure did much to soothe his agitation.

In any case, had they but known it, he was entirely at their mercy; to
be swayed by them, at that instant, backwards and forwards like a reed
in the wind. They chose to go backwards; involuntarily the landlord,
with no longer the least control over his faculties, went backwards too.

“What is this you say, landlord?” asked the calm voice of the King.

“I--I think the soldiers are coming, your Majesty,” said the trembling
landlord.

“You think they are coming,” said the King. “Why should you think they
are coming, landlord?”

There was the least tinge of amusement now added to the la