d to
come so boldly between him and the woman he adored. It was asking too
much of flesh and blood.

Lord Farnham’s hatred of the King was so fierce, so active, so intense,
that in despite of his wife’s example, he strove to open his lips to
denounce him--to denounce him who had set poison into his soul simply
to while away an idle moment. But even as he was wrenched in the grip
of his desperate jealousy, he saw the King’s face.

It was regarding him with the same stoical calm as when he had raised
his pistol an hour or two before to fire upon it. The same look of
slightly amused indifference he thought he saw lurking in the eyes,
and creeping round the lips. The King had looked into his heart, and,
shrugging his shoulders at the drunken demon he encountered there, had
bidden him to do his worst.

Again the King’s face had been too much for his mad purposes. Before
his lips could form the words of betrayal, the resolve died stillborn
in his heart. With the King gazing upon him, it was useless to attempt
to utter them. He must lie there passively, and acquiesce in the
deceit that had for its object the sparing of the King’s life and the
sacrifice of his own.

Nay, he must do more than acquiesce in it. He must assist it; he must
promote it by every means in his power. For was not this hateful man
his King? Was he not the representative of all that three generations
of his family had recklessly spent their possessions and their blood
upon? Was he not the symbol--he, the dirty-faced man in the mean
clothes--upon which the gold, the tears, and the very lives of hundreds
of the noblest and proudest in the land had been lavished? And yet he,
a mere youth, was prepared to forego the first duty taught him by his
father, the father who had yielded up his life that he might teach it
with the better authority, that of fidelity to the King, simply because
his Majesty, overcome by the beauty of his wife, had gloried in the
fact.

He was perfectly sane now. The fever of his insanity had lasted less
than a minute. The man was his King; and where his sacred Majesty was
concerned, no man had a right to think of himself. As suddenly as he
had given way to his furious hate, he now became intoxicated by the
King’s divinity. As long as a breath remained faithful to his body, so
must he remain faithful to his sovereign. He must thank his God upon
his knees, humbly, that it was given to him to render even the smallest
service to his King.

He must aid his wife in her strange, mad, heroic efforts. The spirit to
conceive, to act, and to accomplish thrilled through his weak frame.
His lips grew articulate; his voice took a new to