no established
mode of procedure, my dear Farnham. I believe this occasion to be
unique--unique in the annals of the world. I cannot recall a parallel
of any subject being granted such a privilege by his monarch.”

“Sire,” said Lord Farnham, impetuous boy as he was, “I am sensible that
your noble, your unexampled magnanimity hath conferred such an honour
on me and mine as was never conferred upon a house before. Sire, I am
overcome by it, believe me.”

The young man’s face showed how deeply sensible he was of the King’s
singular generosity. He had lost control of its muscles. It twitched
as one of rare sensibility may sometimes do under the stress of
a ravishing piece of music. The King, on his part, was young and
impetuous too. He knew it, and he was aware that he had granted a
request that, had either of them been older or more sober blooded, it
would have been impossible to prefer, let alone to concede.

“My dear Farnham,” he said, having for the first time a sense of the
vast responsibilities his kingship implied, “we have given to you,
I hope you understand, that which we could not possibly have given
to another. It is in consideration, my dear Farnham, of the long and
honourable services of your house to mine. We must insist that you fire
first. If we create a precedent in the history of the world, we must
name all the conditions of it.”

Lord Farnham bowed his head in assent. He could not trust himself
to speak. For the first time he fully realised how terrible the
circumstances were. The King stood opposite his pillows at the foot of
the bed. His arms were folded with the same inimitable nonchalance as
ever. There was the same slightly humorous indifference in his eyes,
the same whimsical deprecation about his mouth. It was as if the whole
affair amused him a little, and bored him a little too.

The implacable husband, hardly daring to look at Charles, raised the
pistol in his trembling fingers. As he did so, his wife stepped in
front of the King.

“Harry,” she said, “thou art surely mad; thou art overwrought a little
with thy weakness. The fever is not yet out of thy blood. Lie down,
mine own, and get thee to sleep again.”

Farnham regarded her with the ingenuous naïveté of a child. For the
first time a look of irresolution crept into his wilful eyes. Suddenly
he allowed the pistol to slip from his fingers on to the coverlet.

“You are right, Patsy woman,” he said, with a groan. “I can’t do it; my
God! I can’t do it.”

The woman ran forward and flung herself into his arms.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  X

  _Le Roi s’amuse_]


Again the King ado