rightness to begin with. Now,
if we measure a feebly illuminated spectrum we must adopt some special
means to exclude all light, except that of the comparison light and the
ray to be measured. This we can do by the box which is shown in the
next diagram (Fig. 24).

[Illustration: FIG. 24.]

At one end of a box, shown in plan, is an eye-piece, E. The other
end has at its centre a white square of paper of 1½-inch scale. The
monochromatic beam _a_, coming from the spectrum through the slit S
and the reference beam _b_ of white light, are reflected from glass
mirrors M₁, M₂ to apertures in opposite sides of the box, and from
close to these apertures by the right-angled prisms P₁ P₂, so as to
fall on and cover S. Rods R₁, R₂ are inserted in the box in the
paths of the beams, so that the opposite halos of S are illuminated.
Diaphragms inside the box cut off any stray light, and rotating sectors
placed at A and B regulate the intensity of the beams as required.
The sector A is rotated with a previously determined-on aperture;
the white light coming through B is altered till the luminosity of
the two on the screen, as seen through E, are the same. Every part
of the spectrum can be measured in this way; the result is shown in
the diagram. Fig. 25 (the measures will be found at page 215 in the
appendix). In this case the orange light at D where it fell on the
screen was equal to 1/132 of an amyl-acetate light, which, in its turn,
is closely ·8 of a standard candle. In the same figure the luminosity
curve of the ordinary bright spectrum is given for reference, and it
can be seen how the point of maximum luminosity is shifted into the
green, lying almost over the E line of the solar spectrum. The maximum,
of course, has been made 100 as before, for had it been drawn to the
same scale as the other, the form of the curve would not have been
demonstrated. There is a remarkable resemblance between it and the
curve of luminosity of the monochromatic vision, and such a resemblance
can scarcely be fortuitous. As a matter of fact, in this we seem to
have come to the final curve for low luminosities, and is almost the
same as that observed when the spectrum is reduced to such an extent
that it is colourless throughout, a condition that it can assume, as we
shall see very shortly. When the spectrum is rather more luminous, it
gives a curve of luminosity which is similar to that of the ordinary
spectrum when measured by a red-blind person. Here, then, we have an
indication that a person with normal vision passes through a stage of
red-blindness, as the intensity is diminished before he arrives at
absolutely monochromatic vision.

[Illustration: FIG. 25.]

This investigation is of practical as well as theoretical interest, as
General Festing and myself quickly discovered when we first made it.
The curious colour of a moonlight landscape is entirely accounted for
by it. White light becomes greenish-blue as it diminishes in intensity,
and the reds and yellows, being reduced or absent, 