
calls white, as he also does the purple. To impress this point more
strongly upon you, I will place in front of the green slit a small
prism which has an angle of about one and a-half degrees. This is
just sufficient to throw the green colour on the neighbouring white
surface. Here we have both the colours which the green-blind calls
white side by side. If the brightness of each be the same, he would see
no difference in them. Is it possible that on any theory this can be
correct? To explain this apparent paradox, and without reference to
the mathematical proof that white subtracted from white leaves white,
we have only to look at our diagram (Fig. 16), and it is immediately
apparent how it arises. The red and the blue curves cut at this point;
and if we take away the green sensation entirely, the residue will be
a mixture of the red and blue, which is the identical purple colour
forming the patch.

If we are wishful to ascertain the colour that the violet-blind calls
white, we have only to cover up the violet slit and a yellow is left
behind as the result. I would have you remark that these colours which
are seen as white would only be of the hues shown you, supposing the
colour sensations were identical with those in normal vision. Whether
this is the case we cannot absolutely say, and the only way in which
this can be authoritatively settled is by examining some person who has
normal colour vision in one eye and defective colour sense, _not due
to disease_, in the other. One such person has been examined abroad,
but in what way I am unable to say. It is recorded that he sees the red
end of the spectrum as yellow with the eye that is defective. Another
person I have heard of in England, but so far have not had the good
fortune to get hold of him for examination. When I can lay my hands on
him, he will be able to help to confirm or disprove what should be a
general rather than a particular case.

So far I have only met with what appears to be one genuine case of
violet blindness. It is very remarkable, on account of the eccentricity
of the colour nomenclature. The only two colours which the subject
saw were red and _black_. He named all greens and blues as black, the
distinction between the two being that the former was “bright black”
and the latter “dark black.” Yellow he called white, and a glance at
Fig. 16 will show that at this place in the spectrum the neutral point
of a violet-blind should occur. By shifting the slit gradually into
the green, he called it grey, instead of “bright black,” though it did
not match the white patch when darkened. He called a green light a
“bright black” light. We shall have to refer to this case when we are
describing other investigations.




CHAPTER VI.


Another mode of exhibiting colour blindness, and one of the first
adopted, is by making mixtures of colours with rapidly rotating colour
discs. In my own experiments I have chosen a red, which is scarlet,
over which a wash of carmine has been brushed. It has a domi