uestion to himself whether
he should attempt to follow her. The rocks, as he was well aware, were
at this point of no particular height, nor were they very difficult
or steep. But even in broad daylight they called for an effort from
a man in years ambitious to ascend them. Curiosity, however, had its
tentacles upon the landlord’s soul; it insensibly drew him panting,
groaning, and stumbling up the cliff in the wake of the woman, even as
he debated the matter in his mind. The god of circumstance was stronger
than he.

The landlord tore his hands on the sharp fragments that studded the
face of the rocks; he tripped over others that lay concealed. He barked
his shins, tore his clothes, bruised his body; but where the woman
with the lantern went, he went to. In the teeth of the gale she won
her way up to the pinnacle. The uncertain flame in the lantern blinked
and tottered in her hand; but, like its bearer, it somehow prevailed
intrepidly against the gale. Once more her eyes were for the sea; and
as they confronted it even more steadfastly than before, the moon
suddenly swam forth from a black patch of storm, and painted the tense
lines of her form in a weird grey ghostliness. It even fell upon her
face, and betrayed it wilder and more sombre than the night itself.

Still this grim moon and the few sardonic stars that revealed the
woman’s face and form so clearly, mocked the groping blind-eyed rogue
who, lying in a new concealment, strove to profit by their aid. They
showed him all, yet showed him nothing. He could see her precariously
poised under the awful sky, confronting the more awful sea. He could
see the very flesh of her quiver in the wind; he could hear her
garments flapping in the blast; and as once she raised her lantern
a fortunate angle to the moon, he saw the pale tears shine upon her
cheeks. All this: yet how much did he know! To the sensual landlord
it was symbolical of nothing; of nothing beyond the elements lurking
in his own base intelligence. To him the woman was indubitably mad
or drunk or criminal. He clenched his frozen hands upon the thought.
Body of God! she should be made to pay a price for exposing his sacred
person to the night and the tempest in this manner. He would have his
two clotted hands upon her. He would tear every jewel, every rag off
her mad body; he would tear out the very heart of her for this; and
then she and that precious husband of hers should be delivered over to
the gibbet; and they should swing in the wind o’ nights such as these,
forever.

There was unction in these thoughts to the bruised and beaten landlord,
now spying full-length upon his belly behind a boulder. But