t grey, and will say it is indistinguishable
from, and in fact will match with, a white degraded in tone. From this
point he will say he sees blue, near F pale-blue, and in the violet
dark-blue. Too much importance must not be attached to the nomenclature
adopted by the colour blind. They have to take the names of the colours
from the normal eyed. Yellow objects are generally brighter than red,
and having annexed the idea that what to them is bright red is called
yellow, they give it that distinguishing name. His limit of vision at
the violet end will be the same as the majority of mankind, but it will
be considerably shortened at the red end. The point in the spectrum
which he calls grey is an important point, and corresponds to the place
where the violet and green curves cut in Fig. 16. This point can be
very accurately determined by placing alongside the colour patch A
(Fig. 6) the white patch, which is reduced in brightness as required
by rotating sectors. As the slit is moved along the spectrum it will
eventually reach a point where he will say both patches of light are
exactly similar in hue. To the normal eye one will be white and the
other the kind of green indicated above (see frontispiece).

If a similar examination be made of the green-blind, the red end of the
spectrum will be called red or yellow, but the spectrum itself will
be visible between the same limits as it is to the person who has the
normal sense of vision. A grey stripe will be seen in the spectrum, but
in this case it will be a trifle nearer the red end of the spectrum
than the point which the red-blind calls grey; from this point to
the extreme violet, the green-blind will name the spectrum colours
similarly to the red-blind. The part of the spectrum where grey exists
to the green-blind is even more important than that part at which it
exists to red-blind, for it marks the place where the red and violet
curves cut each other in Fig. 16, and is in the majority of cases the
place in the spectrum where to the normal eye the green sensation is
unmixed with any sensation except that of white, as quite recently
explained. This green evidently is the colour which is most usefully
employed in making colour mixtures in order to obtain the three
sensation curves of the Young theory, since white can be added to the
colour matched. To avoid verbiage, we shall call the points where the
red- or green-blind see a grey in the spectrum their neutral points,
and the grey they see at those points their neutral colours. The three
curves we shall call the red, green, or violet curves, and the slits,
when placed in the red, green, or violet of the spectrum, as the red,
green, and violet slits.

We have already mentioned the case of those who possess monochromatic
vision, and shown in what respect they will differ in their description
of the spectrum from those more common cases of defective vision. If
the visual sensation they possess be the violet, they will see no light
at the extreme red of the spectrum, and very little