blue gelatine round the lamp, we
get the same effect, showing that the basis of all colour, be it red,
green, or any other colour, is what appears to us to be colourless.
This experiment is one which is full of interest, as it has a very
distinct bearing on diagnosing our colour sensations, and a variation
of it will have to be repeated under other conditions.

To go back, however, a little way, how does it arise that only three
sensations are necessary to give the impression of all colours? One can
understand that some definite period of the ether waves might be in
unison with the possible swing of one apparatus in the eye, and another
with another, but it is somewhat difficult at first sight to conceive
that more than one can be made to answer to wave motion of a period
with which it is out of tune, so to speak. A couple of illustrations
taken from physical experiments may help to suggest how this can happen.

[Illustration: FIG. 11.]

Fig. 11 is a double pendulum arranged as shown. The pendulum A is
heavily weighted, whilst the pendulum B is light, being only a
string with a small weight attached. This difference in weight was
made designedly, to prevent any great effect of the movement of B
being shown on A, though that of A must necessarily exercise a great
influence on B. The two pendulums are now of the same length. A is
set in motion, and as it swings, B also begins to swing, and soon
is oscillating with greater motion than A, and continues to do so.
The length of the pendulum B is next shortened, and A is again set
in motion. B takes up the motion, and increases its swing more and
more, but now the two pendulums are in opposite phases, and the motion
of A tends to diminish the swing of B, and continues to do so till,
after an interval of time, B is once more at rest, when it again will
start swinging. The fact is, that when A commences to swing, B also
commences; and as long as B and A are moving in the same direction the
impulses tend to make B increase its swing, but when they are moving
in the opposite direction, or rather, perhaps it should be said, when
A begins to start from the highest point of its swing downwards whilst
B is travelling upwards, the swing of B will gradually diminish. This,
of course, must happen when B is shorter or longer than A, since
their times of oscillation are then different. We can now picture
to ourselves that when in the perceiving apparatus in the retina
the moving parts--probably molecules or atoms--arrive at a certain
amplitude, there is then an impression of light, and that it is quite
possible that not only those waves whose motion is exactly of the same
period as that of the apparatus will set them in motion, but also those
waves which are actually of a very different period. If such be the
case, it can be seen that waves of light of some periods may set each
of the three kinds of perceiving apparatus in motion, and that possibly
the resulting impressions given by the sum of all three for a wave out
of tune with any of them ma