 of his own design, by which he mixed
the simple colours of the spectrum, and the results he got are really
the first which are founded on measurement. He measured something,
but hardly arrived at the colour sensation. His colour-box took two
forms, both on the same principles, so only one will be here described,
the diagram and description being taken from his classic paper in the
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society for 1860.

“The experimental method which I have used consists in forming a
combination of three colours belonging to different portions of the
spectrum, the quantity of each being so adjusted that the mixture shall
be white, and equal in intensity to a given white. Fig. 14 represents
the instrument for making the observations. It consists of two tubes,
or long boxes of deal, of rectangular section, joined together at an
angle of about 100°.

[Illustration: FIG. 14.

Maxwell’s colour-box.]

“The part A K is about five feet long, seven inches broad, and four
deep; K N is about two feet long, five inches broad, and four deep; B D
is a partition parallel to the side of the long box. The whole of the
inside of the instrument is painted black, and the only openings are
at the end A C, and at E. At the angle there is a lid, which is opened
when the optical parts have to be adjusted or cleaned.

“At E is a fine vertical slit, L is a lens; at P there are two
equilateral prisms. The slit E, the lens L, and the prisms P are so
adjusted, that when light is admitted at E, a pure spectrum is formed
at A B, the extremity of the long box. A mirror at M is also adjusted
so as to reflect the light from E, along the narrow compartment of the
box to B C.

“At A B is a rectangular frame of brass, having a rectangular aperture
of six inches by one. On this frame are placed six brass sliders,
X Y Z. Each of these carries a knife-edge of brass in the plane of the
surface of the frame.

“These six movable knife-edges form three slits, X Y Z, which may be so
adjusted as to coincide with any three portions of the pure spectrum
formed by light from E. The intervals behind the sliders are closed by
hinged shutters, which allow the sliders to move without letting light
pass between them.

“The inner edge of the brass frame is graduated to twentieths of an
inch, so that the position of any slit can be read off. The breadth of
the slit is ascertained by means of a wedge-shaped piece of metal, six
inches long, and tapering to a point from a width of half an inch. This
is gently inserted into each slit, and the breadth is determined by the
distance to which it enters, the divisions on the wedge corresponding
to the 200th of an inch difference in breadth, so that the unit of
breadth is ·005 inch.

“Now suppose light to enter at E, to pass through the lens, and to be
refracted by the two prisms at P, a pure spectrum, showing Fraunhofer’s
lines, is formed at A B, but only that part is allowed to pass which
falls on the three slits, X Y Z. The rest is 