 his ribs
when he saw him, and laughed till a stitch came into his side.

“There never was so unctuous a rogue in the world before,” said the
King. “What a double-chinned, great paunched, incomparable old knave
of an innkeeper it is to be sure! Pray do not crawl like a worm, my
good Boniface, an it chafes your belly. Stand upon your legs, good
fellow; your appearance is become too beastly, now you writhe upon the
ground. Your congees offend me, Boniface; they offend me. They are
altogether too gross for a man of my nice instinct. But a truce to our
pleasantries; my lord Farnham is in a highly serious mood. Landlord, do
you go into your filthy stable, and rummage about in Will Jackson’s bed
of straw. You will find a leathern case concealed there. Bring it to me
as speedily as may be.”

The landlord backed out of the chamber, his body still bent double, so
that the tip of his nose appeared to rest on his belly.

“Pah!” said the King; “I declare I must open the window. I wonder why
every species of crawling reptile leaves a nauseous oily savour behind
it.”

To the woman it seemed an incredibly short time ere the landlord
was back again with the leathern case; to the man in the bed, an
incredibly long one. To the King himself, it had no period. He was too
indifferent; indeed, he was absorbed in noticing how adorable the woman
looked now the defiance was in her eyes. In his opinion, she looked the
better for that charming attribute.

As the unhappy lady had feared, the leathern case of the King’s
was proved to contain a pair of pistols. With an inimitable air of
courtesy, he offered them both to the man propped on the pillows.

“My dear Farnham,” he said, “I can assure you that they are both
equally excellent. But take your choice.”

“This, Sire,” said Lord Farnham.

By now he had got that petulant voice of his under admirable control.

“You are too undone to prime it, Farnham,” said the King, graciously.
“Pray allow me to do it for you.”

Lord Farnham thanked him humbly.

The King charged the pistol deftly but deliberately. Perfectly calm,
nonchalant, smiling as ever, he began to hum a rather loose ballad
under his breath. Having primed Lord Farnham’s and placed it tenderly
in his grasp, he primed the other for himself, with precisely the same
carefulness of hand and the same carelessness of demeanour.

“Farnham,” said the King, “in these somewhat peculiar circumstances I
must ask you to take the first shot.”

“Sire, you are the King,” said Lord Farnham. “No subject can take
precedence of the King.”

“Unless the King requests him. But there is really 