teel. In spite of herself she shuddered.
She closed her own eyes that she might not see them.

“Madam, I swear I will not be put off,” said the landlord. “I demand
your name and the name of your companion.”

The woman’s lips were frozen. Twice she struggled to speak, and twice
no words issued from them. The landlord had chosen his moment craftily.
The unexpectedness of his appearance at that hour, and the shaken state
she was in already, thanks to her adventures in the night, left her at
a hopeless disadvantage. She might have the desire to dissemble, but
she certainly had not the power. She was bound hand and foot at his
mercy.

“I would prefer to withhold our names for the present,” she said at
last, in a hoarse whisper.

“That you shall not do, madam,” said the landlord. “I must have your
names here, now, this instant.”

“I cannot give them,” said the woman, simply.

Again the landlord enclosed her with his cold eyes. They fascinated
her, they pinned her helpless, they changed her blood into stone;
they were the eyes with which the snake holds the fragile bird. The
same bale and venom crept into them as he gazed upon the frightened
creature, and as she cowered and shrank away, a smile and a sneer crept
together round his mouth slowly. The moment to strike the victim was at
hand.

“So you cannot give them, madam,” he said, with a suave mockery. “So
you cannot give them. I do not know, madam, that I am surprised. I
should have been more surprised had you been able to do so. In the
very hour of your coming, I formed my own opinion of you. I am not
altogether a blind man, madam,--I am not. And when in that first hour
of your coming, madam, in a most unholy and exceptional season that is
not very usual for simple honest travellers to employ, you had recourse
to a lie----”

For an instant the woman’s chin went up imperiously, and a spark
kindled in her eyes.

“I repeat, madam,” said the suave landlord, “in the very first hour of
your coming you had recourse to a lie. You said your husband suffered
from an incurable disease. More correctly, you should have said a
bullet wound obtained a few weeks ago at the battle of Worcester.”

It was a shot in the dark, but it found its mark. The woman fell back
against the stairs with a face the colour of snow.

“No, madam,” the landlord went on, “I can confess to no surprise at
the course you have taken. It is hardly to be supposed that the wife
of a proscribed cavalier, who hath come a fugitive to a lonely inn on
the seacoast, in the hope of slipping over to France on a dark night,
should be willing to publish his name to al