 of the affair. Here a new thought
assailed the landlord. Last night, when the fellow fled down the
ladder, had he not positively asserted and reiterated that he had never
seen the persons upstairs before? He had lied--he had lied foully. Not
only had he seen them, but he was intimately acquainted with the woman
at least. But he would have the truth out of the fellow. Could it be
that some more guilty secret than he suspected lay between them? Was
some deep mystery involved? The landlord nestled nearer to the embers,
and went over all the ground again. Why should a serving-man and a
woman of condition be so intimate and familiar one with the other? She
was a lady--a woman of quality, he was sure--yet with his own eyes he
had seen her on her knees to the fellow; and she had kissed his hands.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  VIII

  _The King’s face_]


When a few slow hours had passed, and the household of the “Sea Rover”
were astir, the landlord lost no time in despatching his son to the
stable to summon Will Jackson to his presence.

The serving-man soon afterwards shambled into the kitchen, wearing
a particularly sleepy and unkempt look. He pulled his forelock to
Gamaliel gravely; yawned, and rubbed his weary eyes on the sleeve
of his jerkin. The landlord regarded him keenly. It seemed almost
impossible that this rustic clod and the beautiful woman upstairs
should have anything in common. But what of her behaviour on the rock
during the night? Could it merely have been fright at his appearance?
Hardly that: besides, his own behaviour had been very incongruous,
considering what a bucolic clown of a fellow he was during the daytime.
Yet was he such a clown after all? Had not the landlord first remarked
about him that he appeared to have wits rather above his station?
However, he would see.

“My lad,” said Gamaliel, sternly, “what did you during the night?”

“Slept,” said the fellow, laconically.

“Did you not walk abroad?” said the landlord.

“Nay, not I,” said the fellow. “Too tired I was; I lay down in my straw
and slept like a hog.”

“You are lying to me,” said the landlord, raising his voice. “You
walked out on to the top of one of those rocks by the seashore, and
there you met the woman in the chamber upstairs. You met her there in
the middle of the night; you talked to her; and she fell on her knees
before you, and she kissed your hands. I know all, you lying villain!
Now, sirrah, confess the reason of it all, or take the consequences.”

The serving-man twitched not a muscle. He regarded his master with a
stolidity amounting almost to the bovine, and he blankly p