hall not withhold
it. The man hath set his heart upon it; he shall have all that he
desires.”

“Nay, Sire, he shall not,” said the woman, defiantly.

In her capacity of faithful subject and hero-worshipper, the unhappy
lady would have submitted to her tongue being torn out rather than such
words should have been uttered by it to her Prince. But as a mother,
a wife, and a woman, there was no other course than to utter them.
Besides, the King was a young man, too. In a sense she felt that her
riper years made her the mentor of both these headstrong youths. She
seized the case of pistols lying on the settle beside the bed. Her
fingers closed upon them convulsively.

“Madam, I must ask you to give them to us,” said the King.

“Never!” said the woman.

The King shrugged his shoulders and put his brows up whimsically.

“Vous êtes difficile,” he said. “Celui qui force une femme contre
son gré ne viendra jamais à bout. Now, madam, if I make my tone very
winning, very coaxing, wilt thou not give them to me? Come, my dearest
lady.”

The King held out his hand to take them with a pretty air.

“Never!” said the lady. Her fingers grasped them tighter than before.

“Patsy,” said the man in the pillows, in his weak voice, “do not be a
fool.”

The King exchanged his look of slightly humorous deprecation for a mock
severity.

“Madam, the King commands you,” he said.

“I will not!” said the lady; she stamped her imperious foot. She was as
pale as death. Her teeth were clenched. Her chin and mouth were as hard
as the King’s eyes.

“Are you stark mad, woman?” said the petulant voice from the pillows.
“The King commands you; give them up to him at once. Give them up to
the King at once, d’ye hear, or ’fore God! I will make you.”

“Never, Harry!” said his wife.

Her lord struggled to get out of his bed, as if himself to wrest them
from her hands. But he was powerless to move. He flopped and wriggled
about in a piteous manner, like a live fish in the sand. The King
laughed.

“Hush! my dear lad,” he said, “lie quiet. Never grow peremptory with
a woman, never force her. Believe us, it is but a waste of energy. Be
easy with ’em, my good Farnham, be easy with ’em. However, I think we
will call for the landlord.”

The King opened the door of the chamber, and called down the stairs for
Gamaliel Hooker. Within a minute the landlord came fussing and puffing
upwards, his rosy gills inflamed by exertion, and an execrable humility
oozing out of his face. The change in his demeanour from an hour before
was so entirely ludicrous, that Charles clapped his hands to