corner
peered the landlord’s astonished face.

“Way there for the King’s servitor!”

The landlord was huddled in his chair, as pale as death. His face was
drawn and hideous; his eyes were half closed, and the eyeballs had
shrunk to such a degree that they seemed to be buried in his head. But
when the King came down the stairs, and the great voice of the Sergeant
heralded his approach, Gamaliel wrenched his eyes open and sat up
in his chair. He was startled and unstrung. The whole thing was too
vivid for a dream, and yet it was impossible. These soldiers had come
expressly to fetch the King; and here was the King walking unmolested
out of their hands.

It was surely the King. There was his long, shambling form, his loose
limbs, his breeches and jerkin of leather, his impassive countenance.
Yes, it was the King looking at him, the landlord. Sure, there was a
half-amused gleam come upon the King’s face suddenly; and, see, he had
set a finger to his lips. He was demanding silence of him.

The old man knew, as he sat in his chair, that the King was escaping,
and that his own fortune was slipping away. He was perfectly conscious
of these two overmastering facts; he sat in the full possession of his
faculties. He had only to speak the word and the prize he had sweated
blood to secure was his. The word must be spoken.

“Way there for the King’s servitor!”

The King, ever with his slow, regulated, mechanical tread, was passing
through the men standing inside and outside the kitchen door.

The landlord opened his swollen lips, but his tongue had not the power
to move. The veins rose in his forehead into great distended knots; he
struggled frantically. The moment of a lifetime was passing; the King
was escaping, and Gamaliel Hooker knew it. One word--oh, God! only just
one little word, and the King would not go!

The man’s breath croaked and sobbed in his throat convulsively; but
nothing human was heard from his lips. The King had passed out of the
door; the officious Sergeant had escorted him through the last of his
men, and, having done so, was returning with his head in the air, in
a truly martial and self-satisfied manner. The landlord turned his
bloodshot eyes upon him; his fingers clutched the air; the veins in
his forehead continued to rise, until it seemed that they must break
through the bloodless skin of his forehead; his voice came at last in
an indistinct croak.

The landlord’s extraordinary appearance drew the attention of the
Sergeant.

“Why, man,” he said, “what ails thee?”

The landlord made a gurgle at the back of his throat.

“Speak! what is it?” said the Sergeant.

