responding to parallels of latitude on a globe, and are not,
therefore, equi-distant when seen in projection. To make these circles
it must be imagined that we have a bowl, in the middle of which is a
thin rod standing upright and passing through the centre, and another
rod attached to it at the centre of the sphere of exactly the length
of the radius. If this last arm be opened to make an angle of 5° with
the fixed rod, and be twisted round like the leg of a compass against
the bowl, it will make a circle, the projection of which will give the
innermost circle of the diagram; if opened to 10° it will give the next
circle, and so on for every subsequent 10°. The lines passing through
the centre are 30° from one another, the line stretching from 360° to
180° being a line supposed to be vertical. By means of an instrument
called the perimeter, the field of vision for each eye can be measured.
With its aid any small object can be made to fall on any part of the
retina by directing the axis of the eye to a fixed point and moving
the object along one of the diameters. Suppose we wish to ascertain
the field for a white object, a small white disc is moved, say, along
the horizontal line, and the angles at which the retina just no longer
sees it are noted. This gives two points in the field, and they are
plotted on the chart--in Fig. 3 one touches the outside circle, and the
other is at an angle of about 65°. The field of vision is next tested
along another line, say 300° to 120°, and other points noted and marked
on the chart. When the whole circle has been examined, the various
points are joined together, and we have the boundary of vision for a
white object. The boundaries of the _colour_ perception for (say) small
red and green discs are found in the same way. The former is depicted
in the left-hand chart and gives the field for the right eye, and the
latter with that for white in the right-hand chart for the same eye.
It will be noticed that two boundaries are given, one taken at mid-day
and the other at 6 p.m. The brighter the colour, the larger is the
boundary in both cases, showing that the field of colour vision varies
according to the illumination. Now it is difficult from this method of
experimenting to determine whether the fields for different colours are
the same or differ in extent, as we have no information as to whether
the colours themselves which were used were physiologically equal. The
only way by which this can be satisfactorily determined is by using
spectrum colours each of known brightness and area. (Some preliminary
experiments made by myself regarding the colour fields will be found in
the appendix, and will be referred to later.) It must not be thought
that the various colour boundaries mark the limit at which _light_ is
perceived, but only the limit at which colour is seen; outside the
boundaries the objects appear of a nondescript colour, to which we
shall by-and-by call attention. The yellow spot lies within the circle
of 5°, and the blind spot on 