n, compare the luminosity of the
colour coming through the red slit with that coming through the green
slit, and then get the green-blind to do the same, it is evident that
any excess in the luminosity as measured by myself over that measured
by the green-blind must be due to the green sensation, and we can also
see how much red and violet make up his white. We shall not be far
wrong, then, in apportioning the constituents of the white thus found
between the green and the red; the violet being, for the time being,
negligible. We must subtract the red sensation from the green _colour_
curve and add it to the red colour curve: the two curves will then be
very closely the curves of the _red and green sensations_. By causing
the green-blind to make mixtures of red and violet for all the colours
of their spectrum, we can arrive at what must be finally taken away or
given to these curves, though such addition or subtraction of violet
will be small when the luminosities are considered. The accompanying
figure (Fig. 22) gives an idea of the shape and general features of
these curves. It may be remarked that we can check the general accuracy
of the measures of the colour mixtures by calculating or measuring the
areas of the two colour curves, the red and the green. If accurate,
they should bear the same ratio that the _luminosities_ of the two
colours bear to each other (when mixed with a little violet, which
is practically negligible) to form white light. So far, then, we can
utilize the luminosity methods to calculate and to trace the sensation
curves for the normal eye. It will not escape your notice that the
maximum heights of these two component curves are nowhere near the
parts of the spectrum where the colour is the purest. Another check to
these curves may also be made by taking the difference in the ordinates
of the luminosity curves of the colour blind and the normal eyed. Too
much stress must not, however, for the moment, be laid on this, as
this method depends on the absolute correctness of the scale of the
ordinates in the curves. It must be recollected that to the former
white light is deprived of at least one constituent sensation which is
perceived by normal eyes. This, in all probability, renders the white
less luminous to them than those possessing normal vision, so that the
comparisons of luminosities are referred to different standards.

It may seem a very simple matter to ascertain the correct scale, but it
is not, except by the extinction method, which will be described later.
At one time General Festing and myself tried to obtain a comparison
by finding the limiting illumination at which a book could be read.
We got results, but for the purpose in question the values are not
conclusive. What we really were measuring was the _acuteness of vision_
in different coloured lights. As a good deal depends upon the optical
perfection of the eyes under examination, besides the illumination,
we must be on our guard, even if there were nothing else against the
method, against 