e then turned, bully as he was, even more roughly on the woman.

“Madam,” he said, “I have sent for you to demand an explanation of
your last night’s conduct. In the middle of the night you crept out
of my house, climbed upon a rock in front of the open sea, and while
there you encountered this serving-man of mine, Will Jackson. Madam, I
demand to know what passed between you; also when and where you met my
serving-man before.”

“How can madam say that,” the serving-man promptly answered for her,
before she had a chance to reply on her own part, “when I have told you
over and over again, good master, that I was never out last night at
all; and, if you must know, the only time she hath seen me before this
morning was when you sent me up the ladder to spy upon her. Then it was
she happened to raise her eyes to the window, and accidentally caught
mine looking at her.”

“Silence, you insolent scoundrel!” roared the landlord. “How dare you
presume to put words in the mouth of this lady! You impertinent dog!
Come, madam, I await your explanation of this odd circumstance.”

The woman stood silent, with her head bent upon the ground. The
landlord was obliged to admit that the exceeding promptness of his clod
of a servant had done a great deal towards outwitting him. She had
had her cue from this impudent rogue. It was too plain that she was
striving to summon up the courage to utilise it.

“Come, madam,” cried the landlord; “I would not have you attempt to
dissemble. You are not of the pattern of a dissembler, as witness your
somewhat melancholy performance in that role in the small hours of this
morning. Be frank, madam. I prithee do not exhaust my patience. Your
respite of twenty-four hours may suffer a curtailment else.”

This threat was not without its effect. The landlord grimly noted how
the fear sprang to her eyes. He noted, too, that as she raised them
they rested a moment wildly on Will Jackson’s face. His countenance,
however, the landlord saw with a new amazement, was absolutely empty
and passive. The fellow was either a clown of no capacity at all, or a
man of an infinite wit, resource, and intelligence.

“Madam, I demand an answer,” said the landlord.

“I have never seen this--this--this man ere now,” the woman faltered.

“You are lying, madam!” the landlord cried in his brutal manner; “and,
my God! if you lie to me I will rescind my promise, and your husband
shall be delivered within the hour into the hands of his enemies. And
this fellow, Will Jackson, shall be given up also, as an aider and
abettor of dangerous Royalists.”

The woman grew white to the li