ook elsewhere for the King. Yet he had no need
to be cast down upon the matter. These two persons were not to be
despised. Their appearance suggested money and jewels. And they seemed
to be delivered, bound hand and foot as it were, into his hands.
Gamaliel hugged himself at that thought. They should be made to pay a
price for that cold in his head. They should not aggravate his gout and
his rheumatism, and set his nerves in a twitter, for nothing. He smiled
malevolently as he sipped his hot cup, and spread his hands out to the
fire.

Perchance the poor devil was dying, though. Certainly no human spirit
could ever be tottering nearer to the brink than that of the man
upstairs. The idea awoke never a spark of pity in the landlord. He
simply regarded the near prospect of his death as another factor in the
case. If he were not the King, he was not sure that he did prefer him
to die. There would be only a woman to deal with them. In the phrase of
that malignant sailor, Diggory Fargus, he would trust himself to tear
the heart out of a woman with his own two hands. But why at every twist
and turn did that uncomfortable mariner obtrude himself? He cursed
himself for having called him to mind. If, however, the young man was
the King--in spite of everything the landlord still clung tenaciously
to that hope,--it would not be to his interest for his Majesty to
perish. He must be delivered up alive, if possible.

During the rest of that evening, Gamaliel was too shaken to spy again
on his guests, or to connive at others doing so. For he was still
determined that his new drawer, whom he had engaged for that particular
purpose, should go up the ladder also, and finally settle this hard
problem as to whether Charles Stuart was actually at his inn or not.

It was not until the following evening that he summoned the courage
to make a fresh attempt to set his mind at rest. During the day he
could not venture to do so, for the publicity of light was too great.
In the meantime he had not an idea of what had happened upstairs. He
was still denied the chamber as sedulously as ever. He had tapped on
the chamber door during the morning; the pale-eyed lady had appeared,
more beautiful and more beset with anguish than before. She had taken
a bowl of milk and a loaf of bread from the landlord’s hands, but
beyond a word of thanks and a prayer that he should not again disturb
the sleeper, he had nothing of her conversation. It was on his lips
to inquire of the young man’s condition; but ere he could frame the
question the door was swiftly yet silently closed upon him, and for
that day his chance had passed. As time wore on, a conviction grew up