 and F of the spectrum was read off on the
scale at A B. It was found that after the instrument had been in use
some time these positions were invariable, showing that the eye-hole,
the prisms, and the scale might be considered as rigidly connected.”

[Illustration: FIG. 15.]

With this instrument he made mixtures of three colours, to match with
white. By shifting the slits into various positions and taking as his
three standard colours a red near the C line, a green near E, and a
blue between F and G (see frontispiece), he obtained a variety of
matches, from which he formed equations. After eliminating, or rather
reducing the errors to the most probable value by the method of least
squares, he got from his matches with white a table of colour values
in terms of the three standard colours, from which the diagram of the
spectrum (Fig. 15) was made. (The heights of the dotted curves are
derived from the widths of the slits, and the continuous curve is
the sum of these heights.) Now what appears to be a properly chosen
colour does not necessarily stimulate only one sensation. Indeed the
probabilities are against it, except in the extreme red and extreme
violet. If colours intermediate to the standard colours be matched by a
mixture of the latter, we do not arrive at any solution of the amount
of stimulation of each sensation, since the chosen standard colours
themselves may be due to a stimulation of all three sensations. As a
matter of fact, Clerk Maxwell chose colours which do not best represent
the colour sensations. The red is too near the yellow, as is also the
green. The blue should also be nearer the violet end of the spectrum
than the position which he chose for it. We may take it, then, that
except as a first approximation, Clerk Maxwell’s diagrams need not be
seriously taken into account. The diagram itself shows that the colour
_sensations_ are not represented by the colours he chose. Supposing
any one in whom the sensation of green is absent were examining the
spectrum, there would, according to the diagram, be no light visible
at the green at E. Anticipating for a moment what we shall deal with
in detail shortly, it may be stated that in cases where it is proved
that a green sensation is absent, there is no position in any part of
the spectrum where there is an absence of light. Had he chosen any
other green, the same criticism would have been valid. The diagram as
it stands is really a diagram of _colour mixtures_ in terms of three
arbitrarily chosen colours, and not of colour _sensations_. It merely
indicates what proportions were needed of the three colours, which
he took as standards, to match the intermediate spectrum colours.
The negative sign in some of the equations--given in the appendix,
page 201--may be somewhat puzzling to those who have not made colour
matches, but not to those who have actually made experiments. It
means that where it is present no match of colour by a mixture of
the standard colours is possible; and that it would be only possible
i