 of the extreme ends of the spectrum; that
in the red near the red lithium line, and another a little beyond G
in the violet of the spectrum, whilst the third slit should be in the
exact position in the green, where the _green-blind sees grey_. Now it
might be a matter of dispute as to whether one was entitled to make
this last one of the positions for the slits, for we use it entirely
on the assumption that two of the colour sensations which we suppose
we possess are identical with those of the green-blind. This might be,
or might not be, the case; but I think it can be shown very easily
that the assumption we are making is more than probably exact. Having
the slits in these positions, we may endeavour to match the spectrum
orange. We mix the red and the green lights together, and find that the
best mixture is always paler than the orange, but by adding a small
quantity of white to the orange we at once form a match. In the same
way if we have a greenish-blue to match, we shall find that we can only
make the match when we add a little white to the simple colour. Now
let us shift the position of the slit in the green just a little--a
very little--towards the blue, and again try to match orange. Do what
we will we cannot find apertures to the slits which will give us the
colour, though it be diluted with white. It will be too blue or too
red, but never exactly orange. This tells us that there is too much
blue in the green we are using. Next, shift the slit a little towards
the red below our fixed position, and endeavour to match the blue.
We shall find that this, too, becomes impracticable. The blue is
either too green or too violet, telling us that our mixture contains
too much green. As the neutral point of the colour blind is the only
position for the green slit which enables us to make a good match to
both the orange and the blue, it follows that this must be the point
where these two colour sensations are so arranged as to be in the
proportions required to form white when green is added; that is, that
there is neither an excess of red nor an excess of violet. To come
back to our measures of colour. We can make up every spectrum colour
with these three colours, and finally divide the luminosity curve into
the _colour luminosity_. In all these matches the violet luminosity is
very small indeed compared with the red or green. A match with white
is now made by a mixture of all these colours, and you will see, from
the images of the slits on the screen, that the _luminosity_ of the
violet is almost a negligible quantity compared with the others. We
may, therefore, as a first approximation, divide up the luminosity
curve into two parts, one being the luminosity of the green in the
different colours and the other of the red. The green, however, is
made up of red, of violet, and of an excess of green sensation, which
in this case comes practically to a mixture of white with the green
sensation. How can we tell how much is green and how much is white?
Suppose I, as a normal-eyed perso