ry, but exactly the reverse. _Primâ facie_,
then, taking the Young theory as correct, we may suppose that these
horizontal parts are due to the extinction of one sensation. Let us
treat it as such, and go back to the original extinction curve shown
in the continuous lines. The parts of the curve which lie over the
fairly horizontal dotted line, at all events, should be the extinction
curve of the same sensation, but more or less stimulated or excited.
As before explained, if we have double the stimulation at one part of
the spectrum to that we have at another, the reduction of the greater
luminosity to give extinction will be double that of the lesser. If,
then, we take the _reciprocals of the extinction_, it ought to give
us a curve which is of the form of some colour sensation; and when we
arrive at the maximum, we may for convenience make that ordinate 100,
and reduce the other ordinates proportionally. This has been done in
Fig. 30 in the curves C and D. For the sake of a name my colleague and
myself have named such curves “persistency curves.” Perhaps some other
name might be more fitting; but still a poor name is better than none
at all.

When the persistency curve was scrutinized to see what might be
taken as its full signification, I must confess that the result
astonished us somewhat, though we ought not to have been surprised.
The persistency curve C, when applied (in a Euclidean sense) to the
curve of luminosity recorded for the men who had monochromatic vision,
almost exactly coincided with it. In other words, by far the largest
part of the extinction was due to the extinction of the sensation
which in the monochromatic vision was alone excited. If this be not
the case, there is something in colour vision which no theory which
I am acquainted with can account for. Then, again, the persistency
curve agrees with the curve of luminosity when the intensity of the
spectrum is very feeble, which is another coincidence of a remarkable
character which some theory should explain. [Fig. 30 gives, besides
the persistency curves, the luminosity curves of the normal eye, of
monochromatic vision, and of the violet-blind; and an exaggerated curve
of the difference between the normal luminosity curve and that of the
violet-blind, and others which I think will be found useful for general
reference.]

What sensation is it that is last extinguished, and which is possessed
by a certain class of colour vision? In the Young theory it can only
be the violet sensation. It is certainly not the green, and much less
the red. It does not correspond, however, very well with the violet
sensation shown in Fig. 16, but more with one which should be in the
blue.

In making the extinctions of light, it is quite necessary that certain
precautions should be taken to avoid error. All my audience know that
when going from bright daylight into a cellar, in which only a glimmer
of light is admitted, but little can be seen at first, but that, as the
eye “gets accustomed” to the darkness, the su