DLORD                                                 245




[Illustration: PATRICIA at the INN

  CHAPTER I
  _The man out of the night_]


It had been remarked that the weather was extreme for the time of year.
The little inn, huddling on the desolate bridle-path that ran in front
of the open sea, was wrapped in a cloud of fog; the night was as hollow
as a crypt; of a temper to warp the spirit; and so silent, that when a
wild fowl cried as it shivered by the tide, a hundred echoes woke in
the high rocks rising behind the tavern.

The house was on a wild and lonely coast. It stood on the road to
nowhere, high hills and seas about it; and as not one traveller a month
came to it from the landward, it was frankly for the service of that
strange, furtive company of adventurers who came in the night from
France and Holland when the winds were friendly.

All the bitter evening had the landlord kept the chimney-side. Flanked
on the one hand by a fire of red faggots, hissing with blue flame; on
the other by a stiff glass of hot rum-and-water, the old man sat, the
image of bodily contentment.

He was not a prepossessing fellow. His face had all the cunning of his
years. He had a pair of hard, colourless, averted eyes, divided by a
hill of flesh, whose blue-veined prominence said where his profits went
to; a close-kept mouth; and over and above it all a fixed expression of
calculated greed, of sustained, unwavering rapacity. It was not a good
countenance to look upon. But to-night it was as near benignity as it
could ever be. For while he sat with the warm fire and the generous
waters inflaming his ruddy jowl, his mind and person were never so
composed. It made him purr internally, like the cat nestling in the
cinders, to compare his own fortunate condition with that of those
frozen men upon the sea. While he reproduced, and even enhanced, in his
imagination the discomforts and the perils they endured, he thanked
the god of his physical well-being for the happy chance that had saved
him from being a mariner. He called upon the serving-maid to brew a
stronger posset for her master’s constitution.

“Cold as the bowels o’ the ground,” he groaned in his fleshly
happiness. “And b’aint it sing’lar how the frost crawls round me. Ugh,
it’s in my toes now, and now it’s in my blood; and, Lord, I feels a
little iceberg a-creepin’ down my spine! Zakes! if it were not for a
drop o’ stingo I might be very poorly.”

He hugged his toasting limbs, and drew his stool yet closer to the
blaze.

“Keep them dogs hot,” said the landlord, when the girl came with the
fresh concoction. “Keep the faggots cracklin