tle patience will always enable you to get a good
observation. The place in the spectrum which is the neutral point is
now noted. The neutral point is again found, but this time commencing
in the blue. The same procedure is adopted as before, and we thus get
a second reading for it, and the two will be found to be very close
to one another. In difficult cases, four or five observations may be
made, and the mean taken as a close approximation. So far the spectrum
test has not shown whether the observer is red- or green-blind, except
by comparing the position of the neutral point with that usually
found by the two types. We have, however, an unerring criterion by
the luminosity method. The red is placed beside the white, and he is
asked to say which he considers the darker; he will give an answer of
some kind, and probably protest that the two colours are not alike. A
soothing answer will disarm his objection, and he will quickly see what
you mean. If he be red-blind he will match in brightness a brilliant
red and a feeble white; if he be green-blind he will make a match very
similar to normal vision. In the case of the red-blind the slit is then
moved into the extreme red, when he will say he sees but one patch of
light, whilst the green-blind will see it as a person of normal vision
would do. If time permits, the whole luminosity curve may be taken and
registered. This is not essential, but interesting for reference. Where
complete colour blindness exists, it should be possible to cause him to
match a green with a red. To do this a second instrument, as described
in page 18, may be used, but it is quite sufficient if a piece of
red glass, such as is used for railway signals, or of bottle-green
glass, be placed in the white beam. There is then a red or green patch
alongside the patch of spectrum colour. The red will stimulate the red
sensation of the green-blind, but not being spectrum red it contains
a certain amount of yellow, which stimulates the green sensation if
the observer be red-blind. The green is of such a colour that it will
stimulate both the red and the green sensations. In the path of the
reflected beam between G and the prisms (Fig. 3) a sheet of plain
glass is inserted, which reflects a proportion of white on to the red
patch. The sectors are placed in this beam. If the red glass is being
used, the slit is moved into the green near E, and the colour blind
will say that both are the same colour, but one darker than the other.
By opening or closing the slit in the spectrum, he will possibly say
that both colours are alike and of the same darkness, but he may say
one is paler than the other, in which case the white light must be
increased or diminished by means of the sectors till equality of tone
is established. This applies to the red-blind and the green-blind. The
former will require a very bright red to match a feeble green, whilst
with the latter the red will require a fairly light green. When the
green glass is used the spectrum colour patch should be red, and t