l and sundry. But it is a
fortunate circumstance that old Gamaliel Hooker hath a few wits in his
head, otherwise a notable traitor to his country might have escaped his
deserts, and there would be one malignant more than there should be in
the world.”

The landlord had trimmed his cruel words, and, uttered them slowly.
Each one sank like a sharp-pointed knife into the very flesh of the
woman. She shrank away from him, torn, bleeding, trembling.

“Happily,” said the landlord in the same clear-cut, long-drawn, formal
tone, “Gamaliel Hooker is not a man to shirk his plain and manifest
duty. A few hours prior to your appearance a band of soldiers called
here, and told me where I might find them should any malignants appear.
I will send an information to them the first thing in the morning.
And now I give you good-night, madam; I think after our nocturnal
wanderings we shall both welcome a return to bed.”

The landlord made to go upstairs. He would reserve the question of what
she was doing in the dead of night, and her highly singular conduct
towards his serving-man, until the morrow. He must not exhaust all his
weapons at once; he would save a few with which to amuse himself at his
leisure. But he had enjoyed using these vastly. He would teach her to
take him trapesing in the dead of the night through the winter gale!

However, as the landlord made to retire the woman sprang forward with
an appeal. She clung to his coat with her frozen hands.

“Have mercy, I beseech you!” was her cry.

The landlord laughed in her face.

“It is a matter for the Lord Protector,” he said. “But I have yet to
hear that he is a merciful man.”

“You will not deliver up my poor husband,” she cried,--“you will not be
so cruel!”

“Mother of God!” said the landlord. “I will do my duty.”

For the second time that night the woman fell upon her knees. She flung
herself at the landlord’s feet. There never was grosser clay in the
world than his. He neither pitied nor spared her. Nay, he prolonged
the agony of her self-abasement to the last bitter moment. He drew out
the frenzy of her abandonment to its last wild prayer. He derived an
intimate pleasure from the picture of the creature at his feet, casting
herself upon his mercy. It was the rarest nectar to his self-esteem; he
sipped it to the dregs and smacked his lips upon it. He waited as one
melting in spite of himself, and then dashed her hopes to the earth by
adopting the same precise, formal voice he had used before:

“Madam, I am determined to do my duty.”

“I beseech you; I implore you!” cried the unhappy woman. “Will you have
no mercy fo