nd of the
King’s; and he had never pretended to a particular interest in the
species.

“Very well, Sire, we will leave it at that,” said the Colonel. “I will
return here early to-morrow morning, and, if all is well, I will then
conduct you to Titcomb Place.”

“Excellent, my good Colonel,” said the King, accompanying the most
faithful friend of his wanderings, Colonel Francis Wyndham, to the
kitchen door. He waved a frank adieu to him as he departed into the
night. The King then returned upstairs.

The landlord breathed again. Having seen the end of that matter, he
looked at the clock. It was now five minutes past seven. Say one hour
more, if all went well. One short hour, and the agony of his suspense
would be at an end. Nay, not that; rather it would be coming to its
heat and violence. The full force of it would be when the men he had
sent for were face to face with the persons upstairs.

He could hardly endure that thought. The nearer the time approached,
the more certain the landlord became that it was going to be a terrible
business. On his life he was not a coward, but another evening of this
kind and he felt he must inevitably become one. Before God, he was
not a coward, but the manner in which his wild heart beat up into his
throat was enough to choke him.

He could not sit still. He rose from his chair and went hobbling up
and down the kitchen as before. All his physical infirmities had gone
out of him. They had been replaced by those of his mind. He said again
he was no coward; but he was certain that in his present shaken state
anything might happen to him. If those soldiers began to whirl their
pikes or discharge their pieces, or the woman began to scream, or
particularly if he saw so much as a drop of blood, he must run forth
out of the house, and hide his eyes and his ears until all was over.
It was a pity that soldiers were concerned in the business at all.
They were so ruthless; their wicked profession left them absolutely
destitute of a sense of delicacy. He had always had a rooted aversion
to soldiers.

It was now twenty minutes past seven. The wretched clock in the corner
seemed to stand still. His heart ticked out the minutes, but the clock
in the corner seemed to refuse to record them. Its inaction mocked
him. Still, after all, he was not sure he was not relieved to find the
hour was not later. He was not fit to grapple with the worst. A respite
was not unwelcome.

At this moment there came a knock on the kitchen door. The landlord
inwardly cursed his visitor, whoever he might be. This was not a night
for visitors. There had been one already; a pretty undesirable one,
too. True, 