 is called the “macula lutea,” or yellow spot, a spot
which it may be assumed exists in every eye. It is horizontally oval
in form, and is situated in the very centre of the retina, embracing
some 6° to 8° in angular measure. It has a brownish or yellowish tint,
and the retina at this part is slightly depressed, being bounded by a
slightly raised rim. In the centre of this area the retina becomes very
thin, having a depression about 1/100 of an inch or ·3 millimetres in
diameter, which is named the “fovea centralis,” where it is said that
vision is the most acute. This statement can be well credited when we
come to consider where the seat of the stimulation of sensation lies.
The colour which tints the yellow spot is strongest at the crater-like
rim, and fades away centrally and peripherally, and is said to be
wholly absent in the fovea centralis.

As the colour of this spot is yellow or brown in the living eye (and
that it is probably brown the absorption indicates), it follows
that white light passing through it must be deprived of some of its
components, though in differing degrees. If the seat of sensation is
at the outer layer of the retina, as we shall shortly see must be the
case, it will further be seen that when light of any colour which the
brown pigment will absorb more or less completely falls on different
parts of the oval area, the absorption must vary at each part, and the
intensity of the perceived light will be least at the rim and increase
centrally and peripherally. As the centre of the yellow spot or fovea
is coincident approximately with the point where the axis of the eye
cuts the retina, the image of an evenly illuminated object, when looked
at directly, must fall on the yellow spot. If, therefore, a patch of
such light, the image of which more than covers the spot, be observed,
it ought to exhibit a varying brightness of colour corresponding to
the strength of the colouring matter which exists at the different
parts. This it but rarely does, for habit and constant interpretation
of what should be seen prevents the mind from distinguishing these
variations; but if the colour brightness, as perceived by the different
parts, be submitted to measurement by proper means, the variations in
brightness of the image can be readily recognised. A very common method
of exhibiting the presence of the pigment is to look at a bright white
cloud through a layer of chrome alum. Chrome alum transmits red and
blue-green rays. Now as the spectrum-blue rays are those which the
pigment will absorb, it follows that the colour of the solution should
appear ruddy to the central part of the eye, but on the rest of the
retina it should appear of its ordinary purplish colour. At a first
glance, and before the eye has become fatigued, this is the case, but
the phenomenon soon disappears. Another way of forming an idea as to
what the yellow spot absorbs is to throw a feeble spectrum on a white
surface and cause the eye to travel along it. If the spectrum be viewed
so that i