rivileged to
see and hear a little too much. Ha! they were already at it, curse
them! The moans of the poor wretch upstairs were penetrating to his
ears. Or were they the moans of the sea, sounds he had heard every
night these forty years? Now and then he thought he heard a muffled,
desperate cry. After all, it might be only the wild fowl on the rocks.
How he wished he could rid his imagination of the scene that was being
enacted. Would that he had not struggled up the ladder at all! Lord!
were they never going to have done? It was enough to make a man revolt
against his clay.

At this acute moment, however, Cicely appeared with her master’s
nightly potation. It soothed his qualms somewhat. Pah! he had got
the nerves of a girl. It was merely a little blood-letting; quite an
everyday matter.

Curse the fellow, there were his cries again! What must it be like to
have a bullet dug, inch by inch, by a dagger out of one’s own back!
Ugh! what a morbid old fool he was; why must he forever keep thinking
of it, and receiving the steel in his own pampered flesh? Might it not
be there in earnest if he ever went up a ladder again!

After all, however, when he came to think of the thing in its true
relation, he was by no means sorry he had been there. He had acquired
knowledge of some value. The “incurable disease” was neither more nor
less than a bullet wound in the body. Now, why should the woman lie
about it and conceal it from the world if the man, her husband, had
come by it honestly? Had he been on the side of the just, in other
words on that of the party in power, more explicitly, my Lord Cromwell
and his Parliament, that wound would have been an honourable scar. They
were plainly Royalists; persons of mark, no doubt, for were there not a
thousand and one subtle but unmistakable evidences of their condition?
And, just as plainly, were they not fleeing the country? Otherwise they
would not come at dead of night to the “Sea Rover.”

He was afraid he must dismiss the theory of this young man being the
King from his mind. It was almost certain that had Charles Stuart
been wounded to death, the fact would have been known over the length
and breadth of the land. For him to have escaped so far in that dire
condition would have been impossible.

Again, there was evidence in their familiar talk, despite something of
a disparity in years, the woman being clearly older than her companion,
that they were man and wife. In any case, the woman’s mode of address,
tender and solicitous as it was, was hardly the one she would employ,
even if she were a princess of the blood, to the King’s majesty. No;
he was afraid he must l