       4603
  G, violet             4307
  H, extreme violet     3968

The rays in the different parts of the spectrum being due to these
simple vibratory motions, cannot be decomposed further. And it makes
no matter whether we _see_ them as different colours or not, they will
always issue at the same angle from the same prism (if the prism be
used to form the spectrum), when it is turned to the same angle to the
incident light. Milestones are useful along a road to tell us where
we are in reference to some central place, and these black lines in
the spectrum serve the same end. But they have the advantage over the
milestone, for whilst the last will tell us how far we are from, say,
York or London, the former tell us our distance from a zero point.
We thus have a scale of light of different wave-lengths laid down for
us, which we can apply to the study of the sensations stimulated in
the eye, and so have the means of instituting a comparison between
the colour vision of different eyes. A mixed or composite colour is
in a different category, however, to the simple colour, as you will
see directly. It is one which may be formed by any number of rays of
different wave-lengths falling on the eye. What these rays are we can
only tell by analysing the light and referring them to the spectrum.

The instrument before you is one which I have used before in this
theatre; but as the major part of my experiments have been carried
out with it, in case those who are present may not be acquainted with
it, it will be necessary to describe it very briefly. The general
arrangement of the apparatus is given in the accompanying diagram, Fig.
4.

[Illustration: FIG. 4.]

R R are rays coming from the source of light, be it sun light or the
electric light, and an image of the one or the other is formed by a
lens L₁ on the slit S₁ of the collimator C. The parallel rays produced
by the lens L₂ are partially refracted and partially reflected. The
former pass through the prisms P₁, P₂, and are focussed to form a
spectrum at D by a lens L₃. D is a movable screen in which is an
aperture S₂, the width of which can be varied as desired. The rays are
again collected by a lens L₄, and form a white image of the surface
of the last prism on the screen E. If the light passing through S₂ is
alone used, the image at E is formed of practically monochromatic
light. Part of the rays falling on P₁ are, as just said, reflected, but
as it and the refracted part are portions of the light passing through
the slit S₁, they both must vary proportionally. If then we use the
reflected portion as a comparison light to the spectrum colours, the
relative intensities of the two, though they may vary intrinsically,
will remain the same. The rays reflected from P₁ fall on G, a silver
or glass mirror, and, by means of another lens L₅, also can be caused
to form a white patch on the screen E, alongside the patch of colour.
At M, or anywhere in the path of the beams, an electro-motor driving a
sector wit