 to
them; hence our sensation of yellow. The green rays, again, promote
assimilation of the red-green substance, leaving the assimilation of
the yellow-blue substance equal to its dissimilation; and similarly
blue rays cause assimilation of the yellow-blue substance, and leave
the red-green substance neutral. Finally, at the extreme blue end
of the spectrum, the rays once more provoke dissimilation of the
red-green substance, and by adding red to blue give violet. When
orange rays fall on the retina, there is an excess of dissimilation of
both the red-green and the yellow-blue substance; when greenish-blue
rays are perceived, there is an excess of assimilation of both these
substances; and other intermediate hues correspond to various degrees
of dissimilation or assimilation of the several visual substances.
When all the rays together fall upon the retina, the red-green and
yellow-blue substances remain in equilibrium, but the white-black
substance undergoes great changes of dissimilation, and we say the
light is white.”

It has been said by the same writer that this theory is tri-chromic.
For my own part I do not see that it is so in the sense in which that
word is used in the theory of Young. It may be a tetra-chromic, for
as far as _colour_ is concerned the black-white sensation must be
excluded; but it appears to me that it cannot be strictly brought under
the head of tri-chromic.




CHAPTER V.


The readiest means of investigating the stimulation of the different
sensations necessary to produce colour is evidently by eyes in which
one or two sensations are absent, and this applies not only to the
Young theory, but also to that of Hering.

In former days, not much more than a century ago, the existence of
colour blindness, as it is now named, was a matter of great curiosity,
and in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of 1777,
the case of a shoemaker named Harris is described by a Mr. Huddart,
who travelled all the way from London to the Midlands on purpose to
see if all the alleged facts regarding the patient were true. Harris
mistook orange for green, brown he called black, and he was unable to
distinguish between red fruits and the surrounding green leaves. At
first, colour blindness was called Daltonism, from the fact that the
great chemist Dalton suffered from it, and investigated the variation
which he found existed in his vision from that of the majority of his
fellow-creatures. It was in 1794 that Dalton described his own case of
colour blindness. He was quite unaware of his defect till 1792, when he
was convinced of its existence from his observations of a pink geranium
by candle-light. “The flower,” he says, “was pink; but it appeared to
me almost an exact sky-blue by day. In candle-light, however, it was
astonishingly changed, not having any blue in it; but being what I
call a red colour which forms a striking contrast to blue.” He goes
on to remark that all his friends except his _brother_ (mark this
relationship), said: there 