rs the creakings of the gallows
tree. Long after his visitor’s departure, Gamaliel felt two strong
hands upon his throat. Why he should have been so conscious of them it
is not easy to know. He had certainly done nothing as yet to provoke
the wrath of Diggory Fargus. He had not so much as encountered the
mysterious youth, let alone betray him. Perchance the innkeeper had no
command of his own integrity. He may have distrusted himself. Perchance
he had that grim insight into his own character that could foresee
his instincts leading him into a course of action that he knew to be
fraught with peril. A man who all his life long had first sought his
own pecuniary advantage in any circumstance that might arise, did well
to fear that his rapacity in any given case might get the better of his
judgment.

As Gamaliel Hooker sat cossetting himself beside the fire, this
mysterious young man of the mariner’s dwelt much in his mind. A
proscribed cavalier, he would stake his leg. Diggory Fargus lay with
his boat in the Cove, waiting to take him out of England over the sea.
As likely as not this fugitive was a person of consideration and great
place, such was the mariner’s solicitude for his well-being. If that
were the case, Parliament would know how to reward him who stayed his
flight. Doubtless a specific reward was already upon his head. If
Fortune directed him to the “Sea Rover,” Master Hooker shrewdly foresaw
that he might have to choose between his greed and his personal safety.
But there was a phrase also of the sailor’s that he would do well not
to forget. He had hinted at a recompense that might exceed the dreams
of his avarice. Plainly this fugitive was a person to be welcomed.

With one hand clasping the liquor-cup, the landlord presently fell into
a doze. Even in this state of semi-consciousness, the unknown young man
still ran much in his mind. Once the sleeper started up and thought
he heard his knock upon the door. It was but a coal that had fallen
on the hearth. He looked into the fire and saw his picture there. A
very handsome, proud young man, with curls on his shoulders and great
diamonds glistening on his hands. But farther back in the bright
embers was the face of the ugly sailor glowering behind it, with his
earrings, his knife, and his strong two hands.

Suddenly the landlord jumped up from his stool with a little cry. He
ran to the window and pressed his ear against the drawn shutters.
The silence of the wintry night had been invaded by strange sounds.
At first they were so remote that their nature was hardly to be
distinguished. But presently they grew plain. Horses!

Hoofs were on the frosty roa