have a surgeon--dare we, child? Indeed, we dare not
tarry. Thou art in a fever even now, and every hour it rises. It must
be done now, mine own, or thou wilt not see to-morrow.”

She spoke so wistfully that she might be beseeching her obdurate lord
to gratify some feminine whim. He continued to regard her sickly and
faintly, till at last a wan laugh crept upon his lips. It was the
herald to the last desperate flicker of his courage--the courage that
enables a man to look the mob in the eyes as he lays his neck on
the block deliberately, delicately, and proudly. A fuller tone came
into his hoarse, querulous voice. There was no longer complaint and
petulance. The pettiness had gone out of it; it was almost a companion
for the woman’s own.

“As you will,” he said, and he came as near to achieving a careless
laugh as a man in his extreme condition ever could. “In with the knife,
then, butcher. Thou art aching to carve me up, I can see. Well, well;
it were better that you had your way, for I suppose you’ll give me
no peace till you’ve done it. But plague take you! You’re tenacious
devils, you women. Your damnable iteration would wear away stone. You
know the place, and it’s embedded in the thick of my back, I think.
Now, mind you cut deep enough. Oh, but I say, good Mistress Surgeon,
prithee, where be thy basin?”

By the time the victim had mentioned these among other details
of the torture he was about to undergo, the eavesdropper on the
ladder had seen and heard rather more than enough for his personal
comfort. Therefore, he quitted his station on the top rung but one,
and descended to the ground as speedily as he could, lest he should
involuntarily become the horrified witness of the knife at its work.
When he came down to Will Jackson, he was shaking as one with the ague.

“I shall not want ye to go up to-night, my lad,” he stuttered;
“to-morrow will do. Now, take away the ladder. You careless varlet, did
I not tell you to make no sound?”

The clumsy fellow had had the misfortune to hit the top of the ladder
against the nose of “The Sea Rover,” scowling in crude colours from
the signboard of the inn. He appeared, not inappropriately it must be
confessed, the most ill-favoured pirate that ever twirled a sword.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  V

  _Shows the inconveniences
  that may sometimes attend
  an active mind_]

The landlord went indoors to his accustomed fireside chair. He was
chilled to the blood; every infirmity that lurked in the gross bulk of
him was up in arms against his late impudence; and worse, his nerves
seemed all tattered and torn in his brain. He had been p