r the sufferings of a wife?”

The landlord turned from her coldly.

“Will you have no pity for the agonies of a mother?” she cried. “Will
you not spare the father of the babe I bear?”

In the mad frenzy of her fear she suddenly rose to her feet, with all
the blood quivering and sparkling now in her cheeks. The landlord
admitted to himself, even as he tortured her, that there never was so
perfectly noble, so perfectly magnificent a creature as this wretched
lady. But when she flung back her cloak to lend the prayer of her
motherhood an additional emphasis, he laughed in her face.

It was more than the woman could endure; the last appeal of her sex had
been despised. The shame and the agony overcame her; she sank senseless
to the kitchen floor.

The landlord, by a deft use of cordials and cold water, brought her to
her senses very soon.

“Mercy, mercy!” she moaned as her eyes came open.

The landlord, deeming that the comedy had gone far enough for that
night at least, thought it time he appeared in his true character. He
exchanged the formal tone he had used when he spoke of doing his duty,
for one more natural to him.

“You shall purchase a day’s respite, madam,” he said, in a brisk voice
of business, “on one condition.”

The woman’s heart leapt in her side.

“Take that ring of sapphires off your finger, madam, and place it in my
hand. On that condition, I will undertake not to lodge an information
against your husband during the next twenty-four hours.”

The woman plucked off the ring eagerly, and, giving it to the landlord,
thanked him with eyes that shone far more bravely than the jewels that
she gave away. In the security of the short respite she had purchased,
she went upstairs to the chamber of her stricken lord. It was almost
less than nothing; yet, after all, there was one day more left to her
in which she might struggle wildly for her husband’s safety.

The landlord had no desire to return to his couch. He was too excited
by the strange events of the night, and too eager to meditate upon
what manner they affected him, and the nature of the mystery he had
been confronted with, to have any hope of going to sleep. Therefore he
rekindled the fire, brewed himself a posset, charged his long pipe with
tobacco, and sat down to reflection. He was hugely pleased with his own
conduct of the last half-hour. The woman was entirely at his mercy. He
would be able to wring her jewels and money from her with ridiculous
ease; whilst at the eleventh hour, when all their portable possessions
had become his own, he would still be able to save his reputation by
giving them over to Cromwell