 of the bichromate.
Thus we have a proof that, as far as the eye is concerned, the simple
and the complex colours are identical. This illustration of the want
of power of the eye to analyse colour might be repeated as often as
we like. We may pass coloured wools, for instance, through the length
of the spectrum and show that they have the property of appearing
bright in, and therefore of reflecting, some colours and of almost
disappearing in others--a sure indication that these colours are mixed
colours as they are made up of the rays which are reflected. Yet when
viewed in white light they can in many cases be matched with simple
colours in the way we matched the colour of the bichromate solution.
This tells us that there is something which requires investigating as
to the constitution of the perceiving apparatus, and points to the
probability that it is less complicated than it would be were it able
to differentiate, without the aid of the spectrum, between simple
and complex colours. If the eye had a separate apparatus--and when I
say apparatus I use the word for want of a better--for taking up the
impression of every simple colour, it might well be assumed that a
differentiation must take place.

There is one class of colours, it must be remembered, which can never
be mistaken for simple colours. I refer to the purples--mixtures of red
and blue--for there are no spectrum colours which unmixed can possibly
match them. All other colours, as no doubt will soon be apparent, can
be referred to some one spectrum colour, either in its pure state or
else mixed with some variable quantity of white light. We are all
familiar with the fact that there are three primary colours, and we
are naturally led to consider these in the light of the experiments
just made. As good a definition as any other of a primary colour is
that it is a colour which cannot be formed by the mixture of any two or
more colours. The original investigators in colour phenomena were the
artists, and they found that neither red, nor yellow, nor blue could be
formed by any mixture of pigments on their palette, but that all other
colours could be made by a mixture of two or more of these three. Hence
to these three were given the name of primary colours. When, however,
the physicist began to work with the simple colours of the spectrum, it
was speedily found that, at all events, the yellow was not a primary
colour, as it could be formed by a mixture of green and red, whilst a
green could not be formed by a mixture of any other two colours. This
we can prove with our apparatus.

[Illustration: FIG. 7.]

Three apertures, all of which can be opened or closed as required (see
Fig. 7), are placed in the spectrum, one in the red, one in the green,
and one in the violet. The last we shall not require at present, so it
is entirely closed; but we vary the width of the other two. We find
that with a little red added to a bright green, a yellow green is
produced; with more red added we have yellow; with still more red, an
ora