taking any such measures as being conclusive.




CHAPTER VIII.


Before quitting the measurement of luminosity, it may be as well to
see whether the curves described are the same whatever the brilliancy
of the spectrum may be. We can easily experiment with a very reduced
brightness. Upon the screen we have an ordinarily bright spectrum. As
the slit, through which the white light forming the spectrum comes, is
narrowed, there is an evident change in the relative brightness of the
different parts, though the energy of every ray must be proportionally
reduced. The red is much more enfeebled than the green, and in
brightness the green part of the spectrum looks much more intense
than the yellow, which is ordinarily the brightest part. This we have
assured ourselves of not only by casual observation, but also by direct
measurement. Perhaps I can make this even more decisive to you. Two
slits are now in the ordinarily bright spectrum, one in the red, and
the other in a green which is near the E line of the solar spectrum.
Instead of using one lens to form a single colour patch of mixed light,
two parts of a lens, appropriately cut and of the same focal length as
the large combining lens, are placed in front of the slits, one bit of
lens before each. This artifice enables us to throw the patch of red
on one white surface, and the patch of green light on another adjacent
to it. By opening or closing one or other of the slits the brightness
of the two patches of light are so arranged that there is no manner
of doubt but that the red is the brighter of the two. The absolute
energies of the rays forming each of the patches are proportionally
reduced by closing the slit of the collimator, as before. At one stage
both patches appear of about the same intensity. This might be taken
for an error in judgment, but to make the change that takes place
perfectly plain to you, the rotating sectors are introduced in front of
the two slits, and the rays now pass through them. The apertures of the
sectors are gradually closed, and we now come to such a reduction that
the red is absolutely invisible; but the green still shines out. It is
losing its colour somewhat, and appears of a bluish tint. The reason of
this change of hue in the latter we shall shortly see. The sectors are
withdrawn and the red re-appears, and is as bright as the green. The
slit of the collimator is next opened, and there is no doubt that the
red is much brighter than the green, as it was purposely made at the
beginning of the experiment. The same class of experiment might have
been repeated with the green and violet or the red and violet, and the
same kind of results would have been obtained. The violet would have
been the last to disappear when the green was so reduced in luminosity
that it appeared in the ordinary brilliant spectrum to be equal to
the violet ray selected. When the green was of the luminosity given
by a slit equal in width to that of the violet, the violet would have
disappeared first, owing to its feeble b