ame unwavering, stolid answer.

And at last, Gamaliel’s anger having spent itself somewhat and his
disappointment having grown a little less keen, he grew to believe
the unfortunate Jackson. There was that in his humble, thick-witted
rusticity that in itself killed suspicion. After all, it was not
unlikely that the nervousness begotten by his strange employment, and
his horror at being discovered in it, was the true cause of his wild
appearance and behaviour.

As the landlord sat that evening, as usual, by his cheerful fire,
examining the knowledge he had lately gained, and weighing it in
his mind for what it was worth, he felt that he had no cause to be
dissatisfied. The man and the woman upstairs in his best taffety
chamber fronting the sea were certainly Royalists. And one of them, and
he the man, was stricken and helpless; and were there not diamonds on
the fair hands of them both?




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  VI

  _The night: the Sea:
  the Rocks:_]


It was a rather late hour when the landlord went to bed that night. As
was usual with him on the cold nights of the autumn and winter time, he
found it hard to tear himself away from the cosy warmth of the fireside
and his generous potations. Midnight had long gone when he rose from
his chair, tried the kitchen door according to his inveterate custom,
and then stumbled up the creaking stairs to the icy sheets of his
chamber.

Perchance they clapped too cold about his ancient blood for sleep to
visit him; or likelier, he had an indigestion of the mind from excess
of things to think about, for close his eyes as often and firmly as
he might, or insinuate his fat person in every fantastic posture in
the cold recesses of his bed, sleep was banished from him utterly.
Those nerves of his still twittered in his old head. The events that
had recently come within his ken were telling upon him. He could not
grapple with them with the ease and deftness of a younger man, or a man
endowed with stronger fibres in his character.

Do as he would, there was no sleep for him to-night. When he shut his
eyes he saw the King with rime on his fine cloak, and rings on his
fingers, and a feather in his hat, and a retinue of noble-looking
gentlemen bowing low before him. When he opened them, the ugly visage
of Diggory Fargus, that dreadful mariner, was grinning at him from
the foot of the four-poster. His image was quite as realistic as the
King’s. How those earrings bobbed about in his ears! Twice when he
was dozing off a convulsive twitch shot through his limbs, and he was
compelled to draw his breath cautiously, for he felt a knife to be
buried to the hilt in his back.