stopped by the shutters.
Suppose that the portion falling on X belongs to the red part of the
spectrum; then, of the white light entering at E, only the red will
come through the slit X. If we were to admit red light at X, it would
be refracted to E, by the principle in optics that the course of the
ray may be reversed.

“If, instead of red light, we were to admit white light at X, still
only red light would come to E; for all other light would be either
more or less refracted, and would not reach the slit at E. Applying the
eye at the slit E, we should see the prism P uniformly illuminated with
red light, of the kind corresponding to the part of the spectrum which
falls on the slit X, when white light is admitted at E.

“Let the slit Y correspond to another portion of the spectrum, say the
green; then if white light is admitted at Y, the prism, as seen by
an eye at E, will be uniformly illuminated with green light; and if
white light be admitted at X and Y simultaneously, the colour seen at
E will be a compound of red and green, the proportions depending on
the breadth of the slits and the intensity of the light which enters
them. The third slit Z, enables us to combine any three kinds of light
in any given proportions, so that an eye at E shall see the face of
the prism at P, uniformly illuminated with the colour resulting from
the combination of the three. The position of these three rays in
the spectrum is found by admitting the light at E, and comparing the
position of the slits with the position of the principal fixed lines;
and the breadth of the slits is determined by means of the wedges.

“At the same time, white light is admitted through B C to the mirror
of black glass at M, whence it is reflected to E, past the edge of
the prism at P, so that the eye at E sees through the lens a field
consisting of two portions, separated by the edge of the prism; that
on the left hand being compounded of three colours of the spectrum
refracted by the prism, while that on the right hand is white light
reflected from the mirror. By adjusting the slits properly, these two
portions of the field may be made equal, both in colour and brightness,
so that the edge of the prism becomes almost invisible.

“In making experiments, the instrument was placed on a table in a room
moderately lighted, with the end A B turned towards a large board
covered with white paper, and placed in the open air, so as to be
uniformly illuminated by the sun. In this way the three slits and the
mirror M were all illuminated with white light of the same intensity,
and all were affected in the same ratio by any change of illumination;
so that if the two halves of the field were rendered equal when the sun
was under a cloud, they were found nearly correct when the sun again
appeared. No experiments, however, were considered good unless the sun
remained uniformly bright during the whole series of experiments.

“After each set of experiments light was admitted at E, and the
position of the fixed lines D