inute or an hour thus, the act was so vivid,
so unforgettable, so pregnant with that which sears the memory and
leaves it raw. But at last the man seemed to draw her to her feet,
and thereafter they stood together, talking eagerly. There was that
in the frantic gestures of the woman, in her wrought attitude, and
the perfervid manner of her utterance, that the landlord was able to
interpret. It seemed to him that she was pouring forth a wild appeal.
But listen as tensely as he might, the noise of the sea and the wind,
and the intervening distance, were too great for him to catch a word
that fell between them.

The next thing of which the landlord was aware, was, that they were
leaving the altitude on which they stood. As they prepared to descend
to the path beneath, the woman hung heavily upon the strange man’s
arm. And as they came down the incline of the rocks, they approached
so near to Gamaliel’s hiding-place that the old man was able to train
his eyes full upon them; and the moonlight and the light of the woman’s
lantern falling on them too, they became a feast for his curiosity. He
was able to discern almost every detail of the stranger’s countenance;
and as he did so, he had to strangle the cry of surprise that welled up
on his lips. The woman’s mysterious companion was none other than the
landlord’s new serving-man, Will Jackson.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  VII

  _The Woman_]


By the time Gamaliel had recovered a little of his amaze, the man and
the woman had gone past him; and when at last he reached his feet to
follow them, they were already lost to sight in the descent. Judging
them to be upon the path that led back to his inn, and that thither
doubtless was their destination, the landlord stumbled down as
speedily as he could towards it. As he had supposed, the woman and his
serving-man had reached it too, and were steering a straight course to
the inn. The landlord crouched after them as stealthily as ever. It was
his desire to see without disturbing them. He must observe every detail
of their behaviour, and afterwards construe it at his leisure. To his
mind there never was so deep a mystery as the wild business of that
night.

When they came to the inn they stayed a minute underneath the sign,
and resumed their eager converse. Again was the landlord too far off
to hear the purport of it, but there was still the same passion and
excitement on the woman’s side as formerly; and when they parted--the
lady through the open kitchen door, and the serving-man to a
temporary bed of straw that had been found for him in the stable at
the back--there was again that astounding incident of h