withdraw it, a _dark_ image of the points will be
seen on the partially lighted screen, and will appear to travel with
the eyes as they move away from the fixed point. This phenomenon is
due to the fact that the perceiving apparatus for white light gets
fatigued on the parts of the retina on which the bright image of the
white carbon points thrown on the screen fell, and that when the
source of brightness was removed, the less intense illumination of
the screen failed to stimulate the vision apparatus at those parts
to the same extent that they were stimulated over the rest of the
field. We can vary the experiment by placing a red glass in front
of the electric light, and, following the same course as before, we
shall see a greenish-blue image of the carbon points upon the screen.
In this case the retinal apparatus which has not been stimulated by
the red sensation will be capable of the maximum stimulation by the
feeble white light, whilst that part which has suffered fatigue will
not respond so freely to the red contained in the white light. If we
abstract a certain amount of red from the spectrum, its recombination
will give a white tinged with greenish blue, which is a counterpart of
the colour we feel when the eyes have been fatigued by the red light.




CHAPTER III.


Let me take you back again to matches of colour. We will now, however,
make the matches with the primary colours in the guise of pigments.
These colours themselves are complex colours, but as the eye cannot
trace any difference, or at all events very little difference, between
them and simple colours, a mixture of these complex colours should
answer nearly as well as do mixtures of the simpler colours. We have
here three discs, a red, a green, and a blue, and we can very closely
match these colours by a red, a green, and a blue in the spectrum.

By having a radial slit cut to the centre of these card discs, we can
slip one over the other so as to expose all three colours as sectors of
a single disc. Then we can place the compounded disc on the axis of a
rapidly rotating motor, and the colours will blend together, giving an
uniform colour. Any proportions of the three colours can thus be mixed,
and by a judicious alteration in them we now have them so arranged
that they give a grey. By inter-locking together (Fig. 9) a black disc
and a white disc, each with a diameter slightly larger than that of
the other discs, but equal to each other, and rotating them on the
same spindle behind the three colour discs, we can, by an alteration
in the proportion of black to white, form a grey which will match that
produced by the rotation of the three coloured sectors. In other words,
white, though degraded in tone, can be produced by the three complex
pigment colours, as we have seen can also be done by the mixture of the
three simple spectrum colours.

[Illustration: FIG. 9.]

The mixture of the three spectrum colours can match other colours than
white. For instance, it can be made to match the colour of brown pa