her that, for the King, to-morrow
would never dawn. God! he would be taken like a rat in a trap. He would
be taken there, in her husband’s chamber.

And who had caused him to be taken there? Who had been the unwilling
agent of his tarrying? The thought was too terrible to bear. She
clasped her hands to her bosom, where lay the King’s image in
miniature. Again the tears trembled in the woman’s eyes. The King
remarked them and took them to himself.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  XI

  _The Psychology
  of cowardice_]

Since that first strange hour of the King’s revelation, Gamaliel Hooker
had sat in his chimney-side, except for the few brief minutes in which
he had done his Majesty’s behests. Very naturally, in the first shock
of the King’s appearance his wits had deserted him. An event of such
magnitude had never happened in his life before.

It was not likely to happen in it again.

Presently, with the King upstairs out of the way, and his generous
potations to strengthen him and to calm his nerves, the landlord’s
wits strayed back slowly, one at a time. To think that the King should
come in the guise of a serving-man, and that he should be such a blind
fool as not to recognise him when he came! And ye gods, to think what
sacrilegious hands he had laid upon the royal person! To think how
roughly, not to say angrily, he had addressed him! Gamaliel never came
so near being a sensitive man, as in the first horrified five minutes
of his returning faculties.

These were the secondary thoughts which occupied his mind at first. But
soon there were others. As he sat sipping his liquor and ruminating
over the events of the morning, he felt them dimly to be shaping
themselves. They were gradually coming forward. And they would have to
be grappled with and considered on their merits. The landlord stiffened
the fibres of his brain for the task.

One fact came uppermost. It would assert itself; it refused to be
blinked. Now that the King was indeed here in his inn, the utmost must
be made of him. For was there not to a poor man a fortune in the royal
person? To some people it might seem distasteful to sell the King; yea,
even to him, Gamaliel Hooker, when he thought of it in cold blood, it
did not seem a pleasant thing. It would have its compensations, though.

If, however, the King was to be taken in his house, he must act at
once. He would be hardly likely to tarry. And yet he might. As Will
Jackson, he had already stayed two days. He was probably waiting for
his friends. Still, it would be by no means safe to count upon his
remaining. There was yet one drawback to sending for the soldiers. When
they 