e Last Supper.

“Sire,” said the visitor, “all the arrangements are made and the
coast is clear. I am assured that there are no Roundheads nearer than
Woolden Magna, a hamlet some fifteen miles along the coast. To-night,
therefore, under the cover of the darkness, you will be able to push on
to Titcomb Place, the house of Mr. John Pocock. You will there be able
to lie in a better security. You will be able to wash your face, Sire,
and adopt a raiment less out of keeping with your condition.”

“My present one is by no means out of keeping with my condition,
Colonel,” said the King, with a sudden bitterness. “The condition of a
dog is that of a gentleman by comparison.”

The Colonel sighed; his grizzled face was full of distress.

“A little patience, Sire,” he said gently. “In a few short days you
will no longer have need to fear your enemies. I would recommend, Sire,
that you come with me now to Titcomb Place. It is but three miles along
the rocks, and we must go on foot. I have brought no horses, as the way
is devious. Mr. Pocock hath everything in readiness for your reception,
and I am sure, Sire, you will lie in perfect comfort and security for
one night at least.”

The landlord hung upon the King’s reply. After all, was he to be balked
by the King’s going ere the soldiers could reach him?

“My dear Colonel,” said the King, with his customary diffidence, “not
to-night, I think. I am in no mood to leave my quarters here. I am
perfectly snug and content; and as you say, our Boniface hath already
given an earnest of his honesty. Besides, we have had more than enough
of the night air of late. This evening we propose to give ourselves a
holiday. Despite our attire and the walnut juice that discolours our
countenance, we have a warm and snug chamber at our disposal upstairs,
and the society is most amiable. My poor young Lord Farnham lies there
of a bullet wound, a memorial of the melancholy Third, and his adorable
Countess is there to nurse him.”

“Ah, Sire!” said the Colonel, wagging a playful finger at the King.
“Further argument of mine is superfluous, I fear. Mr. Pocock cannot
hope to compete with my Lady Farnham. And, after all, Sire, I do not
think it matters greatly where you lie this evening. The enemy do not
seem to be very active in this neighbourhood. Landlord, you have no
reason to fear their appearance to-night, I trow?”

“I do not think, sir, that they are at all likely to inconvenience his
Majesty to-night,” said the landlord.

His voice was prompt, hard and dry. He hoped God would forgive him.
But, after all, he was a poor man; he was not a personal frie