ced green.

[Illustration: FIG. 27.]

But how are we to measure this extinction of light at the different
parts of the spectrum? This is a problem which I have attacked during
the last few years by a variety of methods; but as is the case with
almost every scientific problem, when the mode of attack is reduced to
its simplest form, it yields the more readily to solution. If we have
a box, like that figured in Fig. 27, and combine it with our colour
patch apparatus, the problem is solved. B B is a closed box 3 feet
long and about 1 foot high and wide, having two similar apertures 1½
inch in diameter in the positions shown. The aperture at the side is
covered on the inside by a piece of glass _a_, ground on both sides,
and a tube T is inserted, in which diaphragms, D, of various apertures
can be inserted at pleasure. The most convenient form of diaphragm is
that supplied with photographic lenses--an iris diaphragm. E is a tube
fitted at the end of the box through which the screen S is viewed. S
is black except in the centre, where a white disc is fastened to it. A
mirror, M, placed as shown, reflects the light scattered by the ground
glass on to the screen S. The rotating sectors are placed where shown,
and are in such a position that they can be readily adjusted by the
observer. The patch of any desired colour of the spectrum is thrown
on _a_, and an appropriate size of diaphragm used, so that when the
sectors are not less than 5° to 10° open, the light totally disappears.
We can now make observations throughout the whole spectrum, and knowing
the value of the different apertures of the diaphragm and the angular
opening of the rotating sectors, we can at once find the amount of
reduction of the particular part of the spectrum that is being required
in order to just extinguish all traces of light from the white disc
at the end of the box. From these measures we can readily construct
a curve or curves which will graphically show the reduction given
to the different parts of the spectrum. Fig. 28 gives the curve of
extinction for ordinary normal colour vision. The spectrum was of such
a brilliance that the intensity of the square patch of light formed on
_a_ of the orange light (D) was exactly that of an amyl-acetate lamp,
placed at one foot distance from the receiving screen. Knowing this,
the actual luminosity of all the other rays of the spectrum can be
derived from the curve of luminosity (see Fig. 20). Extinguishing the
various parts of the spectrum by this plan, it is found that the red
rays cease to stimulate the retina sufficiently to give any appearance
of light long before the green rays are extinguished. It is only the
rays in the extreme violet of the spectrum, and which consequently
possess very feeble luminosity, that make any approach towards
requiring the same amount of reduction as the red rays.

[Illustration: FIG. 28.]

There is the fact to remember in making these measures in the extreme
red and the extreme violet, that the luminosities of the colours are