is rum-and-water. “His ways were not my ways, d’ye
see, and he had to go. Not only was he the worst serving-man I have
ever had, but I had occasion to doubt his truthfulness, not to say his
honesty.”

“Ah! yes, yes, to be sure!” said the visitor, with a remarkable
admixture of laughter and amazement. “How very odd, how very odd;
’od’s fish, how very odd! But, after all, you were his master.”

“I was, the more is the pity,” said the landlord.

All this time he was fervently hoping that his unwelcome visitor would
go, lest anything should happen to detain him. Whoever he was, he
was determined that the King should not see him if he could help it.
Charles was at present perfectly settled and quiet upstairs, and he
seemed likely to remain so for some time to come if nothing occurred
to disturb him. If possible, he must see nobody ere he saw Captain
Culpeper and his men.

The strange visitor, still repeating “How odd; ’od’s fish, how very
odd!” in various inflections of tone, was preparing to take his
departure, when the particular thing occurred that the landlord so
desired to avert. The stairs began to creak, and the King’s long legs
were observed to be coming down them.

“My dear Colonel,” said the King, heartily, “I thought I could not be
mistaken in your voice. It penetrated upstairs to my chamber, and I
judged by the sound of it that our landlord was putting you off. I was
half expecting you to-night.”

The visitor greeted the King in the curious manner that the singular
circumstances demanded. While he contrived to throw a vast amount of
respect into his demeanour, he shot a number of questioning glances
from the King’s face to that of the landlord. Plainly he was wishing
to be advised of how much Gamaliel actually knew concerning the King’s
identity.

“The murder is out,” said the King, laughing. “There are no longer any
secrets between Boniface and ourselves.”

“Then, Sire,” said the Colonel, “permit me to say that I think mine
host to be a very honest fellow. Landlord, you did well to conceal the
whereabouts of the King from one who was a total stranger to you. You
exercised a rare discretion, landlord, and I am sure his Majesty will
not be in the least likely to forget it.”

“By my faith! yes,” said the King, heartily; and then added frankly:
“After all, I believe I have done less than justice to our Boniface.”

The landlord bowed low. His ears tingled to hear his praises sung. He
felt it to be a somewhat ironical world, however. The sweat burst out
of the roots of his hair; he knew what Judas Iscariot felt like, of
old, when he sat at th