have had
the privilege of listening to him at this Institution. It is my duty
to speak on some subject of physics, and the subject I have chosen
is Colour Vision. I hope it will not be considered inappropriate,
since it was Thomas Young, the physicist, whose connection with this
Institution is well known, who first propounded a really philosophical
theory of the subject. Interesting as it may be to trace how old
theories have failed and new ones have started, I feel that for those
who, like myself, have but little time at command in which to address
you, the historical side of this question must of necessity be treated
incompletely.

Colour vision is a subject which enters into the domains both of
physics and physiology, and it is thus difficult for any one individual
to treat of it exhaustively unless he be a Helmholtz, who was as
distinguished in the one branch of science as he was in the other.
I am not a physiologist, and at the most, can only pretend to an
elementary knowledge of the physiology of the eye, but I trust it is
sufficient to prevent myself from falling into any grievous error. I
shall try and show you, however, that the subject is capable of being
made subordinate to physical methods of examination. I must necessarily
commence by a very brief description of those parts of the eye in which
it is supposed the seat of vision lies, but in terms which are not
too technical. As to the mere optical properties of the eye I shall
say but little, for they are not necessary for my purpose, although
more particularly adapted to mathematical treatment than the other
properties I have to describe.

The eye may be diagrammatically represented as in the figure which is
supposed to be a horizontal section of it, the figure being reproduced
from Professor Michael Foster’s Physiology.

[Illustration: FIG. 1.

  _Scl_ is the sclerotic coat. _Ch_ the choroid coat, with _CP_ the
    ciliary process. _I_ is the body of the Iris. _R_ is the retina
    or inner wall. _PE_ the pigment epithelium or outer wall. _L_ the
    lens held by the suspensory ligament _sp.l._ _VH_ is the vitreous
    humour. _ON_ the optic nerve, _ox_ is the optic axis, in this case
    made to pass through the fovea centralis, _f.c._
]

As far as the perception of colour is concerned, the principal part
of the eye which is not distinctly optical--_i.e._ for the production
of images--is the retina, and this it will be seen is in reality an
outcrop of the brain, the connection between the two being the optic
nerve. Owing to this connection, it is not easy to determine where the
seat of colour perception is located; but for the purpose of physical
investigation this is not of first-rate importance, nor does it affect
the discussion of rival theories except in a minor degree. There are
other subsidiary adjuncts in the eye to which, however, I must call
attention, as they have a distinct bearing on the apparent intensity
of some colours and of the hue that mixtures of others are perceived.
The first is what