
so small that the illumination of the prism itself, by the white
light falling on it, has to be taken into account, since it forms
an appreciable portion of the patch of feeble colour. By placing a
proper shade of blue or red glass in the front of the collimator
slit this white light disappears or becomes negligible, and when the
absorption of the coloured glass is known from measurement, we can
get a very accurate measure of the extinction of these parts. Some
people may propound the idea that the rotating sectors may in such
kind of measurements give a false result. Now such a criticism is
quite fair, and it is absolutely necessary that it should be answered.
Well, to test the accuracy or the reverse of the assumption that such
measures are correct, the following small piece of simple apparatus
was devised. A and B (Fig. 29) are two mirrors placed at angles of 45°
to the angle of incidence of the beam. The path the beam takes can be
readily ascertained from the figure. This piece of apparatus was placed
in position in front of the spectrum, and the reflected beams used
to form the patches of colour. For convenience only a small pencil of
light was allowed to issue from the prism, a diaphragm of some ½-inch
in diameter being placed in front of it. This allows a spot of any
desired colour to fall on the screen, the ground glass being removed.
The slit through which the spectrum colours pass is moved along the
spectrum, and a position is arrived at where the last glimmer of light
disappears.

[Illustration: FIG. 29.]

The mirrors A and B may both be of plain glass blackened with smoke on
one side, or one may be plain glass and one silvered, or they both may
be silvered. This, with the power possessed of altering the aperture
of the slit of collimator, puts us in possession of ample means of
making our measures. We may also use the ground-glass arrangement and
use different diaphragms, which puts a further power of variation in
our hands. I may at once state that the resulting measurements fell on
the curves, obtained by measurements made with the rotating sectors, a
sufficient proof that the sectors may be used with confidence. There is
still another method which avoids a resort to the sectors. A tapering
wedge of black glass can be moved in front of the colour slit, and a
different thickness of glass will be required to cause the extinction
of each colour. Recently I have modified the extinction box, more
particularly for the purpose of using it where the spectrum is to be
formed of a feeble light, such as that of an incandescent lamp or a
candle. If a really black wedge could be obtained, this would seem to
be the best method, but no glass is really black. We have, therefore,
to make a preliminary study of the wedge to ascertain accurately the
absorption co-efficients for the different rays, a piece of work which
requires a good deal of patience, but which, when done, is always at
command.

In Fig. 28 two branches of the curves are given at the blue end of the
spectrum;