 but this time it was
horrible. There was the nausea of the impending to embitter it. The
sensation it induced was not unlike that favourite form of nightmare of
falling slowly down into space from some dizzy incredible height. He
seemed to have been cut adrift from all that bound him to existence; he
was being precipitated slowly, feet foremost, into the black gulf of
the infinite yawning beneath him.

How slowly! The clock in the corner said twenty minutes past eight.
The soldiers were already overdue; the landlord mechanically cursed
them for not coming promptly. They could not know what tortures he had
passed through during the last two hours, else they would never prolong
them and draw them out. If they did not arrive soon to put him out of
his misery, he was sure that another frenzy would come upon him. How
sick, how weak, how impotent he felt now that he could dimly recall the
recent scene before the King! There are times when a thing that has
happened many a year ago--some small _faux pas_ or other--will recur to
the mind with a dim sense of bashful shame. At first the landlord was
afflicted in about the same degree; but as the minutes passed, it grew
vastly stronger and more vivid, until in the end it became a whirling
vertigo of self-disgust. The landlord loathed himself.

A coward, when he knows he is a coward, and would be otherwise, is not
far removed from the most unfortunate man in the world. The landlord
had lived sixty years before he had discovered how ignoble were the
parts that composed the fabric of his character. For the first time
they were confronted by a set of circumstances that would have taxed
the resolution of the strongest mind to the utmost. The landlord
had awakened--for he was a man cursed with a considerable degree of
intelligence--to the fact that the materials out of which his mind
was made were miserably inadequate to the present occasion. Something
beyond self-love, greed, cunning, and an implacable egotism were
demanded of him who aspired to act the leading part in the drama about
to be played. He had sold his King, it was true; but his critical
spirit told him how terribly he had bungled the tragic business.

Five-and-twenty minutes to nine. No sounds of horses yet. The landlord
might listen intensely, but the hope usurped the place of the deed; the
soldiers did not come. He had forgotten to tell Cicely to prepare the
King’s supper. Bah! he would want no supper. There was only twenty-five
minutes, though. If those thrice-cursed soldiers did not come soon, he
would be calling for it. Yea, and half an hour afterwards they would be
too late. Diggory Fargus and his men were due at ha