e all his life he had never been put to the test, had attempted
to bend them to his own purposes. But they had proved too great and
unwieldy; he had not had the physical strength to overcome them.
Instead they had overcome him.

The landlord did not give himself up to despair. He was too far gone
for that. He was bitterly afraid of death. A death by violence would
still have the power to revolt him; but the thing uppermost in his mind
was his humiliation. It was so fierce and overpowering, that it became
an anodyne to lull and allay all the passions of his soul. It took the
sting out of death itself. He had been tried and found wanting. At the
age of sixty the supreme moment of a laborious and fairly successful
life had come. He had failed; let him perish.

“Finis” was about to be written to his history. He had no longer to
fear that awful suspense which had the power to overthrow the firmest
intelligence. As plainly as he could hear the roar of the sea, he saw
his doom. He sat still and thought upon it, almost calmly. Right at the
very last he had emerged from the furnace, and had come out strong.

He would bare his neck, and they should do their worst. He would
welcome it. He had no desire to live now; he had ceased to be swayed
by his animal passions. All his life, when he could escape a moment
from his greed and his sensuality, he had been a philosopher. He had
warmed both hands at the fire of his own egotism. He had flattered
himself that he had known his own strength and his own weakness. He
knew nothing of the sort. Just as in one direction he had overestimated
his resolution, he was now to prove that he had underestimated it in
another.

A day ago he would probably have writhed on the ground in a fit had he
been confronted by a death by violence. By now, however, he had got
beyond all that. There were things a man occasionally had to submit to,
which made such a thing almost a luxury. He had spent that day upon
the rack. The sharp rending asunder of his body and his soul would
be a merciful release. His eyeballs would no longer start from their
sockets; his limbs would no longer crack; nor would his blood burst
through the walls of his arteries. His shuddering frame would be at
peace.

The clock struck twelve. The landlord clenched his hands as he sat in
his chair; a smile crept stealthily upon the dead white of his cheeks.
It was the last touch of irony that he, Gamaliel Hooker, should be
sitting there so calmly looking a death by violence full in the face.
To think that his old pampered flesh, cossetted and cushioned for sixty
winters, should accept it without a murmur! The wind is tempered to
the shorn