oodness
to assist me to rise. Sire, I crave that you may honour me by choosing
your weapon. See, there is a case of pistols on the chair beside the
bed.”

The King shrugged his shoulders.

“I protest, my dear Farnham,” he said, laughingly, “that the boon you
ask is a little peculiar.”

The man in the bed struggled with his difficult breath. At all times a
hot, impetuous youth, his malady had given him less control of himself
than ever. Thus his overmastering anger had caused him to pursue a
course which a soberer or an older man would not have dared to suggest.

“May I beg you, Sire,” he said, “not to encumber our conversation with
things that are irrelevant and unnecessary. Are the long and faithful
services rendered by my family to yours enough to enable you to grant
me the privilege of falling by your hand, or, if fortune is so tender
to me, of you falling by mine? I am sure, Sire, you will be the first
to admit, after what hath passed so recently, that the same roof should
not be asked to undertake the responsibility of harbouring us both.”

“Do you persist in this, my dear Farnham?” asked the King. He was
astonished at the boldness of the young man, but his thoughts were
veiled by his gracious air.

“I do, Sire,” said the husband, “as far as a subject may persist with
his sovereign.”

“I have no choice other than to grant it then,” said the King.

“Sire, you overwhelm me,” said the husband, fervently. “Madam, I must
ask you to assist me from my couch. My wretched limbs are as paper.”

“As implacable a foe as thou art a friend,” said the King. “It is,
however, the only reparation we can make you.”

The unfortunate woman showed a veritable reluctance to do the behests
of her lord. She looked at the King and she looked at the man in the
bed with a terrified bewilderment. On the face of the one was the
eternal frank smile of audacious indifference. The countenance of the
other was entirely merged in his eyes. They blazed. The woman faltered;
she trembled; she hung back.

“Madam,” said the man in the bed, imperiously, “do you not hear me?”

“Madam,” said Charles, laughing a little, “we must ask you to do the
bidding of my lord. Prop up the dear fellow somehow, and give him his
choice of weapons. We have injured him unwittingly; but it shall never
be said of Charles Stuart that he denied a reparation to friend or
enemy.”

The woman, however, was far from acceding to the behests of her husband
or her King.

The cold terror that possessed her was dispelled by the necessity for
action. In some vague way she felt it was her right to come between