uld, doubtless, be no end of a business
presently. Yet, more probably, it was not the King at all; in that
case there would only be a woman to deal with, for fugitives must be
made to pay for the privilege of perishing in that respectable house.
Just, however, as Master Gamaliel’s thoughts had travelled back to
their customary sphere, and were beginning to revolve in their natural
orbit--namely and to wit, the personal interests of Gamaliel Hooker--a
phenomenon occurred to the corpse. It raised its arms and stretched
itself.

The landlord bit his lips with anger. What a zany he was, to be sure;
he had come to his dotage. To think that he should have mistaken a
sleeping man for a corpse! It did not occur to him, cunning as he
was, that it calls for as full-blooded a creature to be an eminent
scoundrel, as it does for one to be distinguished in the more civil
sciences. He could not shake off that sinister incident of the night
before; he was a bag of nerves; he could hear skeletons creaking in
the wind. With the best will in the world, there was hardly enough
blood and pulse about him for this business. He had a thought too much
imagination. He made but a poor second-rate sort of rascal, after all.

All this time, though the lady was in the chamber, she had been so
still that the landlord had not noticed her. Turning his attention
to her now, the eavesdropper saw that she was standing hard by the
bed. She was no longer regarding the sleeper, however. Her head was
bent over something she held in her hand; and her tears were falling
fast and thick. In the very frenzy of her companion’s sufferings she
had restrained them; but now, when she had procured him some little
surcease, her thoughts seemed to be elsewhere, and her infinite
compassion extended to another.

Craning to the window and alternately pressing his ears and his eyes
to the wood, Gamaliel was able to discover the object of her pity. The
thing in her hand was an open locket. It was suspended by a chain of
fine gold round her neck, and was worn apparently in the recesses of
her bosom. The landlord was presently able to discern that it was a
portrait in miniature. Yet it was far too small and delicately wrought
for its outlines to be distinguished at that distance. Gamaliel had not
to speculate long on its subject, however. For on a sudden impulse the
lady pressed it to her lips with a passionate gesture, crying aloud in
her throbbing tones:

“Oh, my King! oh, my King! our Lady be with thee forever and alway!”

She sank to her knees in an attitude of prayer.

The landlord, deeming that there was nothing further to gain by
remaining longer in his precar