de of the dead embers. There was no need for him
to rise to let them in, as he remembered that he had not considered
it necessary to secure the door before he went to sleep. What a
transcendent thing it was to have a heart utterly without bodily
fear! It was rather hard, though, that he should only be allowed to
experience that pleasure for so short a period in his long life.
However, it was very excellent even to have known it at all. He could
hardly be said to have lived in vain.

The landlord, still in his chair by the dead fire, watched the kitchen
door. He saw it open. He saw Captain Culpeper appear, stiff and cold
with riding, and very morose. His men, stiff and cold and morose too,
crowded in behind him. The landlord neither moved nor spoke; he seemed
wholly indifferent to their entrance.

“The King is escaped!” said Captain Culpeper, eyeing him savagely.

“I knew it,” said the landlord, a little wearily. He closed his eyes;
almost a smile came upon his white lips.

“Oh, you knew it!” said Captain Culpeper, with a grim satisfaction.
“You knew it, did you! And how did you know it, fool and poltroon as
you are?”

“Poltroon I am,” said the landlord, “a thousand times a poltroon; but I
am no fool. I knew it because I knew it.”

“Bah!” said the soldier, “I have not the patience to talk with you. But
I trust the man and the woman are still upstairs in their chamber.”

“They are not,” said the landlord; there was a note of triumph in his
voice. “A company of smugglers bore them away half an hour after your
departure.”

“And you allowed them to leave your inn, after what I had said to you?”
said Culpeper, striving to control the fury that was shaking him from
head to foot.

“I could not help myself,” said the landlord, indifferently.

“And you could not help the King’s going, I suppose,” said the soldier,
“even when he went past your very nose?”

“No, I could not help myself,” said the landlord again.

“And wherefore could you not?”

The soldier’s rage was giving place now to a self-contained harshness
which did not distress the landlord to observe.

“I do not know why I could not stay the King’s going,” said the
landlord.

“What do you mean?” said the soldier.

“When the King went,” said the landlord, “I was not the master of
myself; but, thank God, I am master of myself now.”

“You will soon cease to be,” said the soldier, regarding him with a
grim surprise.

“That is as maybe,” said the landlord.

The soldiers crowded about the landlord with sinister intention upon
their faces. Captain Culpeper briefly to