ious and grievously exposed situation,
crept down from his perch, and sent up the shivering Will Jackson in
his stead. It would require but a glance for the fellow to discover
whether the man in the bed was or was not Charles Stuart.

Now, whether it was that Will Jackson had not the address of his master
in the delicate art of seeing without being seen, or whether the fellow
had had the audacity to advise wantonly those within the chamber of his
presence, the landlord was in no case to tell; but certain it is Master
Hooker heard a strange, wild cry arise from the room: and the next
instant the serving-man came pellmell down the ladder, very much after
the manner of one who has confronted a ghost.

The landlord hurriedly bore away the ladder and went indoors with his
man, lest the lady above should fling back the shutters and discover
in what manner she had been spied upon. For it was plain that Jackson
had had the folly to let her see his face at the window. Having abused
his servant in the roundest terms for his incaution, the landlord
proceeded to question him as to what he had seen.

“Was it the King?” was the breathless question.

“Oh, no, master!” the fellow assured him.

So much for the slender hope the landlord had been secretly cherishing!
He could not confess to any surprise, for many circumstances pointed
against it. And as there was no sort of hesitation about the fellow,
Gamaliel had no temptation to doubt him. Yet if it were not Charles
Stuart, Jackson’s demeanour at the window clearly showed that he and
the persons in the chamber were well acquainted.

“Then if it was not Charles Stuart,” the landlord demanded, “who was
it, sirrah?”

“I do not know,” said Will Jackson.

“You are lying to me,” said the landlord, furiously; “and if you lie to
me, you rogue, I will break your head--or no, I will not; I will send
for those soldiers that were here two nights agone, and I will deliver
you up to them as a malignant who was concerned in Worcester fight.
Now, who are they? D’ye hear me? Who are they, I say?”

“I do not know, master,” Will Jackson repeated doggedly.

“I say ye do know, sir!” the landlord cried. “And ye shall speak the
truth, d’ye hear me! Why should you come down the ladder in that plight
if ye had never seen these persons before?”

The fellow stood silent. The landlord repeated the question and
heightened the threat. But it was of no avail. The drawer abided by his
denial, simply and tenaciously. His master fell into a violent rage. He
shook him by the collar, he kicked him, he beat him with his fists; but
all he could get out of him was the s