 either
these ideas or a particular phrase recalled Diggory Fargus to his
mind. How he loathed the image of that mariner! Could it be possible
that this woman was searching for him? Indeed, what more likely? He
doubtless had some wretched smuggler lying in some little cove on the
beach; lying in readiness to take fugitive cavaliers by night into
France. Could it be that she was waving that lantern as a signal to
Diggory Fargus?

Already the landlord’s mind was at work on that new phase of the
night’s mystery; already, despite the extreme bodily discomfort in
which he was, he fell to tracing its bearing on his own private
interests, as was his invariable wont, under every conceivable
condition. His mind did not follow that trend very long, however.
For while the woman stood with the moon and the stars, the wind and
the spray beating upon her, a second figure sprang silently and
mysteriously out of the night.

It appeared so suddenly upon the platform of rock on which the woman
stood at gaze, that the astonished landlord could not tell how it had
come there. It had evidently climbed up from the other side, however,
and, strangely enough, the woman seemed neither to be aware of its
apparition nor to expect it; for even when the figure was less than ten
yards behind her, her back was towards it, and she still looked out to
the sea.

After the landlord’s first shock of excitement and surprise was over,
he was quite prepared to recognise the form of Diggory Fargus in
this unexpected vision. But one keen look at it, as it struggled and
stumbled through the fierce wind, showed it to be too tall for that
stunted mariner. The landlord heaved a sigh of vast relief.

It was not until the man, for man it clearly was, had come directly
behind the absorbed woman, and plucked her by the cloak, that she
withdrew her eyes from the sea and confronted him. And her manner
of doing so was so wild and startled, that she could have had no
cognisance of his presence. A cry escaped her lips; a cry so great that
it pierced through the gale to the landlord’s ears; and it appeared to
the watcher’s astonished eyes that had the man not supported her in
his arms, she might have fallen headforemost down the cliff. And then a
little moment afterwards occurred a thing more singular.

The woman sank on her knees on the rock before this strange appearance;
and, taking his outstretched hand within her own, she bent her face
convulsively against it, so that it seemed to him who watched that her
eyes, her lips, her hair, her tears were imbrued upon it in a strange
mad passion, the like of which he had never seen before.

She might have been a m