tant in reading the signals ordinarily used, and therefore
in this test no special test-skein is employed. Let us consider what
colour we should use. The neutral colour to this form of colour
blindness is yellow. If, therefore, we pick out a pale yellow skein,
the candidate would pick out greys to match it; or if we gave him the
pink skein to match, since he has no blue (violet) sensation, he would
match it with a pure red or with a purple.

Where monochromatic vision is under examination, all skeins would be
matched with one another indiscriminately--blues, reds, greens, greys
will all be a match, some lighter and some darker than the test-skein.
I have been told by some who have carried out examinations for colour
blindness that this matching is by no means so uncommon as is often
imagined. In future it is hoped that most of those who make these
matches may be examined by the spectrum test, as it may turn out that a
proportion of them will be most valuable theoretical cases.

In making an examination with the Holmgren test, it is almost
unnecessary that the candidate should take up a skein out of the heap
of wools to form a preliminary diagnosis. The colour blind will not
at once pick out an evident match, but will hesitate and evince a
desire to appear very accurate in his choice. This indicates at once
that there is something amiss. He probably will pick up a skein of the
right colour, place it against the test-skein, lay it down and again
take it up. Or he will pick up a skein which is evidently incorrect and
do the same thing, but perhaps he will return it to the heap and take
up another which is equally bad.

He will fumble over making his matches, and eventually have a heap by
him which will at once tell the examiner that he is colour defective. I
may as well give you an idea of the colours which the colour blind will
pick out by a simple experiment. The heap of wools is on the table, and
in the pure white of the electric arc light, which is thrown on it from
the lantern, every colour is distinct in hue and in intensity. On one
side are placed the two important test-skeins, the pale green and the
pink. There can be no doubt but that in that heap of wools there are
a large number which can be matched with each of them. The red-blind,
be it recollected, sees no red, and if I can place in front of the
lens of the lantern some medium which cuts off the red as completely
as possible, the audience as well as myself will see the colours
approximately as the red-blind would do. Such a medium is found in the
same blue-green glass that is used for signals on most railways and on
board ship. The green-blind, on the other hand, see no green, and if a
medium can be found which when placed in the path of the light allows
no green to pass, the colours in the heap being deprived of the green
would be such as would very nearly be the same as this type of colour
blind would see. This glass is covered with a film of collodion in
which fuschin and blue have been dissolved. It transmits a 