nosity at
four or five positions in the spectrum, extending from near the extreme
red to the blue, will give an unerring criterion of the kind and extent
of colour blindness from which they are suffering. The existence of
a neutral point in the spectrum is sufficient to indicate that their
blindness is of a nature to be dangerous in certain occupations. To
some it may be a difficulty how a neutral point can be found in such
cases, since all sensations are more or less present. The reason,
however, was explained on page 96.




CHAPTER XV.


Examples of colour blindness have been brought to your notice, and
various measurements made by persons possessing normal and defective
colour vision have been recorded, but no attempt has been made to
discuss the two leading rival theories that have been laid before you.
Regarding these theories you may expect me to say something, and to
avow myself a partisan of one or the other. This last I must decline
to do, though it will have been seen by the line that I have taken in
these lectures that the Young theory attracts me. There are, however,
difficulties in adapting it to explain several facts of colour vision
which seem to render it, to say the least, incomplete. For instance,
to explain the colours produced by simultaneous contrast, the Young
theory has to betake itself into psychological ground. I will show
you some excellent examples of contrast colours. We have upon the
screen a patch of white reflected light, superposed over a patch of
red light. Placing a thin rod in the paths of the two beams, we have
two shadows--one illuminated by white and the other by red, and lying
between them a mixed light of red and white. The shadow illuminated by
the white does not appear white, but a bluish-grey. When the spectrum
colour is changed to orange the blue is intensified, whilst when it is
green, what should be white appears of an orange-salmon colour. Other
colours give the white different hues which I need not describe.

These contrast colours are usually said to be _complementary_ to the
spectrum colours employed, though it must be recollected that what a
complementary colour should be is determined by the quality of the
white light which the two, when mixed, are made to match. But recent
measures of my own show that they are not truly complementary in most
instances, whatever the white light may be. But whether they are or not
does not much matter when the explanation offered by the followers of
the Young theory is considered, for it is asserted that such contrast
colours have no real existence, but are psychological, or--what this
comes to be--simply delusions. If they are not real colours felt by
the retina, they have a very good resemblance to them, and the same
series of delusions are so persistent and so constant for all normal
vision that they can always be measured as having a constant value. I
bear in mind the experiment in which the contrast colour, after being
produced, is isolated in the eye from the colour producing it an