 the first time for more than an hour. His
head fell onto his chest. He was utterly worn out and overcome.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  XII

  _The Mariner_]

Joseph once away on his errand, the landlord felt easier. He had no
longer to fear his own irresolution. Things must take their course.
Therefore, he sat down and waited through the weary hours, with a
conviction steadily arising in his mind that after all he was playing
a fine, a manly, not to say a noble, part. It calls for no little
courage to sell one’s king for a few pieces of money. Gamaliel, now he
came to look back upon this transaction, or at least the inception of
it, felt something perilously like pleasure glow within him. He did not
glory in his deed as yet; but the fact that it had cost him so many
pains to achieve, invested himself in his own mind with some attributes
of the heroic.

Therefore he sat down to wait through the weary hours, very well
content with himself. With other things he was hardly so. He was
mortally afraid that the rare prize upstairs might quit his roof ere
the soldiers came. Or his friends might intervene; or a thousand and
one things, at present unforeseen, might happen. In any case the
landlord was wholly a man of peace. Nothing did he desire less than
there should be a scene of bloodshed on his kitchen floor. God forbid!
The thought turned him cold. He had a constitutional aversion to
blood. Not only did it make such a mess, but it also had a habit of
lingering in the mind for many days to come. Besides, like many men of
brains, endowed with a great activity of imagination and intelligence,
he clearly felt himself to be at a disadvantage in the presence of
violence. He had no skill in the use of arms; he preferred to work
with subtler weapons; and when he saw them flying about, he was apt to
anticipate their consequences more keenly than another. He was not a
coward; his great action of that evening, which would change the course
of history, was a sufficient refutation of any charge of that sort; but
in the matter of actual violence, that ignoble argument of inferior
wits, he was not seen at his best.

He hoped to God that to-night there would be no blood spilt at his
inn. His poor nerves still ticked in his head as loudly as the spider
running up the wall. He was, indeed, very overwrought. He felt that
it would be more than his body and soul could endure, should there
be a scene of violence this evening in his house. He revolted from
the thought. He did hope the young King would have the good sense to
acquiesce passively in his fate when it confronted him. He knew that
there were two cases of pistols upstairs 