ead of the night, to the “Sea Rover”? Was the
landlord awake, or was it a figment of his dreams?

Yes, horses undoubtedly, and the dead of night indeed. Was it not the
season at which the King was most likely to arrive? Ay, and the place.
After all, why should not the King, in his present circumstances,
come to his inn? Nothing could be more natural, more expected. A
presentiment, every second growing into a conviction, possessed the
landlord. It seemed to send his heart beating against his brain.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  III

  _The strange Visitors that
  came to the Sea Rover_]


He continued keenly to listen. The horses appeared to be approaching
but slowly. They seemed to be two. The King and one of his many
faithful followers, perchance, wearied to death and very cold. It was
a pity the fire had fallen so low on the hearth. It was unfortunate,
too, that the landlord should have so short an intimation of the
royal coming. But he must contrive to give Charles Stuart some sort of
a reception, because all the world over a king is still a king; and
whatever one’s politics, should royalty honour one’s roof-tree, it is
impossible to assert them. Therefore he called up the stairs in his
greatest voice:

“Joseph, come down at once. Cicely, my wench, do you come too. The King
is arriving!”

Soon the travellers were heard hard by the window, under the sign. The
landlord, excited as he was, yet hung back a little from opening the
door. He would let them knock, just as though they were common persons;
he would pretend that he did not know one was the King.

It seemed an intolerable time ere a demand was made for their
admittance. At last came the expected knock, but, strangely enough, a
very gentle one. There was nothing regal in it. It had no authority, no
command; it was modest to the point of timidity. If it were not the
King after all! Had he not better make sure!

“Who be ye?” Gamaliel demanded, with his mouth to the door. “Who be ye?
What d’ye want?”

If it really was the King, he was not supposed to be aware of the
fact; and much as his pulse might leap at addressing a prince in this
audacious manner, he loved to do it none the less.

The door was tried and shaken ever so lightly.

“Who be ye? What d’ye want?” the landlord repeated.

“Oh, open the door, I pray you,” a soft voice implored him from the
night.

The landlord recoiled with an oath. It was the voice of a woman. His
disappointment was bitter; a woman when he had looked for a prince!

Again he put his questions, this time angrily. What could a woman want
at his inn on that inaccessible, inhospitable s