, after all, cunning is a quality
with grievous limitations. It is the offspring of a mean mind, and
is therefore of value only up to a particular point. Therefore what
should have been by now as clear as day to the innkeeper was still
quite obscure. Instead of reading the plain, simple truth, he went
deeper than a more straightforward person would have done, and missed
it altogether. He was convinced that the woman and the man--whoever
he was, he was no serving-man--stood one to the other in a guilty
relation. The previous night he had witnessed an assignation; and,
further, now that the woman had to choose between this fellow and her
husband, she was ready to sacrifice her husband.

There never was anything so plain, the landlord thought, yet he
flattered himself that it was not everyone who would have found it so.
This fine theory was doomed to perish almost as soon as it was born,
however. Despite all that the woman had done to urge him to prudence,
this strangest of serving-men insisted, in his cool, smiling, slightly
indifferent manner, on going his own way.

“My dear madam,” he said, in a louder tone than any he had yet
employed, “we honour your devotion and your solicitude; we shall
ever cherish it vastly. But we are a-weary of this mumming, of this
intolerable play-acting; we yawn to death. ’Twere better far to perish
of the axe than to die thus incontinently. Besides, we are hungry and
thirsty. The food our landlord reserves for his servants is fit only
for swine. Landlord, have the goodness to hold your peace, and fetch us
a cup of sack and a nuncheon of bread and meat. ’Od’s body! never was a
king’s belly so sharp before.”

At last the landlord saw. At first his bewilderment was so great that
he could have been easily felled by a feather. Every emotion that
the old rogue had was suddenly laid stark naked by this wonderful
revelation of the King; indeed, his behaviour was so ludicrous that
that frank young man burst out a-laughing at him. Too excited to
speak, too dumbfounded to act, too paralysed with all the conflicting
sensations let loose in his head to be able to think, he was as one
suddenly become deaf, dumb, and blind. He could neither see nor hear;
he could neither speak nor lift a finger. The occasion was too great
for him; he had lost control of his own entity.

In the meantime the anguish of the poor lady was even more terrible,
more unutterable than before.

“Oh, my King! my King!” she wailed, “what hast thou done? My God! what
hast thou done?”

The King put his hand upon her shoulder, gently.

“Peace, dear lady, peace,” he said. “This is no season for your tear