e servant-maid, with grim
satisfaction.

“You clumsy jade!” roared her master; “you insolent baggage!”

Cicely tossed her head, and passed up the stairs well satisfied.

“Wish it had been his eyes, the slimy old twöad,” she muttered under
her breath piously.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  IV

  _Will Jackson_]


The landlord sat long over his matutinal collops and ale. No
philosopher could have desired nicer food for meditation than the
incidents of the night. The thoughts they induced were subtle, yet
peculiar. Could it be that the young man with “the incurable disease”
was the King! He himself did not know his Majesty other than by
repute. He was said to be young and handsome. He was said to be on the
coast of Dorset; and last night he was expected at the “Sea Rover”
by persons of knowledge and experience. Could this querulous young
gentleman be the King, after all? He was building that theory up
piece by piece in his mind. He could see no argument against it other
than the fact that he had a woman for a travelling companion. True,
she might be a fugitive, even as he. That she was a person of a rare
condition he did not doubt. It would not surprise him to discover that
she was a princess of the royal house.

Still, whatever the nature of his suspicions, he must hasten to confirm
them. The bird might slip through his fingers else. The simplest and
the surest way was to send for the soldiers. Thereby he would guard
against risk. But Gamaliel never was a friend of simplicity. Besides,
his guests might prove not to be royalty at all. They might be merely a
pair of proscribed aristocrats. In that case, he would lose two wealthy
patrons on the first day of their sojourn; a thing not in the least
consonant with his ideas. In the case of the King, that would be all
well and good. There would be a fine reward for his pains. But in the
matter of a cavalier, there was no such great solatium. They were not
rated so high; indeed, they might be said to be as common as dirt. No;
in a bald phrase, as between a man and his conscience, he proposed in
the case of a mere cavalier seeking refuge under his roof, to bleed
him, to wring him dry, and then to propitiate the law at the eleventh
hour by depositing the fellow, and the few rags left to cover him, into
the hands of the Lord Protector.

Was there not an intelligent discretion in a scheme of this kind? But
he must be wary indeed. It might prove a dangerous game. Once more that
menacing sailor put a thrill of fear in his heart; he was sure that
the young man upstairs was he whom Diggory Fargus sought. But, be that
as it may, there was one piece of i