he service and the homage of his fellows; one who would not be slow
to exact it, either. Still his exquisite fair curls clustering round
his neck, and his blue eyes, if their insolence, their anger, and their
pain could be forgotten, lent him the appearance of an angel--a soiled,
ruffled, complaining angel, who, finding itself on earth, wished to be
elsewhere.

His condition was certainly dire. He could hardly speak; and as he lay
back on his pillow, sobbing for breath after each effort to do so, his
impatient rage would have been ludicrous had it not been a thing to
pity. The woman continued to chafe his hands till a little warmth crept
in them, then rose from her knees to procure and arrange more cushions
for him. Presently, the landlord came with the steaming tankard. The
lady took one sip of it carefully, to assure herself that it was not
too hot for the lips of her companion. She held it for him while he
applied his mouth. He withdrew it instantly, with a splutter.

“God scald you, landlord!” he said, in a hoarse, weak voice, “you have
burnt my mouth.”

“There--there, mine own,” said the lady, caressing his curls. “Drink
freely. It will not hurt you, indeed; nay, it will give you ease.”

Having settled the sufferer in some degree of comfort, she asked the
landlord to lead her to the stable.

“No, no, Patsy woman,” said the stricken man, “you must not leave me.
You will not leave me, will you, Patsy?”

He entreated her like a child.

“I will not be five minutes away,” she answered, soothingly. “But I
cannot neglect the poor, good horses, can I, mine own? You would have
them lie in comfort and warmth, even as you do.”

“Prithee, stay you here, madam,” said the honest serving-girl. “And
take off your wet cloak, and come about the fire. I will look to the
horses.”

“No, child,” said the lady; “I must look to them myself. They have
played a noble part this night.”

Despite the entreaties of the sufferer, whose demands for his wife not
to leave him rose almost to a wail, she insisted on going out to see
that Joseph had succoured the distressed creatures according to their
deserts.

When she returned, Cicely, the serving-maid, grew truly imperative.

“I’m a-going to take them wet clothes off you, madam, by your leave,”
she said. “You will surely get your death. Why, even now you look fit
almost for the grave.”

The lady regarded the honest girl with a wan smile.

“Child, you are very good,” she said.

With her aid she discarded all her travelling attire except the mask.

“May I untie it for you, madam?” said the girl.

The lady hesitated.