.

She ran to the door and turned the key in the lock. The King rose from
his chair, still laughing. The act of the unhappy lady was that of a
child. What could a frail piece of wood avail against a company of
armed men? The door was tried and shaken.

“Open!” said a stern, excited voice.

“Oh, my King, my King!” the woman cried in her despair. “They must not,
they shall not take you!”

She set her back against the door. The next instant the first shivering
blow fell upon it from without. The lock started; the hinges groaned.
A second blow and the door was open, and the woman was driven hard
against the bed. But as the foremost man entered the chamber she turned
upon him, and made as if to thrust him back. Neither he nor those
behind him heeded her, however. They pressed inexorably forward into
the room.

The King stood awaiting them with an absolute indifference, as though
he were hardly conscious of their presence, let alone their errand.
He did not speak and he did not move. Indeed, so unconcerned did he
appear, that his features seemed to relapse into those of Will Jackson.
They grew utterly blank and destitute of emotion; and this, in unison
with his dirty, stained countenance and mean dress and appearance,
caused the first of the soldiers to enter the room, Captain Culpeper,
hardly to regard him at all.

He turned to the man in the bed. The face of Lord Farnham, worn with
illness as it was, and racked with pain, betrayed the strong excitement
under which he was labouring. His dress and the manner in which he lay
were far more calculated to attract attention to him than the King,
whose garb and impassivity were wonderful foils to his true condition.

For a moment Captain Culpeper, who apparently was not at all familiar
with the King’s appearance, looked at Lord Farnham a little doubtfully,
and in that moment Lady Farnham’s strange resolve was born.

As a cat notes the movements of a mouse, had the unhappy lady noted
those of the King’s enemies. Of so vastly different a nature was
she to the helpless landlord downstairs in the kitchen, that in lieu
of his paralysis at the approach of the terrible crisis she had a
preternatural keenness in all her faculties. Her mind was perfectly
clear, whatever the stress under which it was labouring. Her wits
were roused to a desperate acuteness. Her whole being was possessed
and dominated by one awful thought. The King’s life was at stake; the
King’s life must be saved.

The soldiers did not move an inch but what the lady saw them. An
instant of indecision and she was prepared to act upon it.

Captain Culpeper looked doubtfully a moment at Lord Farn