e were not the King, however? If, as was very likely, instead
of Charles Stuart, he proved to be only some fugitive cavalier from
Worcester fight, he could not afford to denounce him at present. There
was no such great solatium in regard to a cavalier. He must first bleed
him to his very last fourpenny ere he allowed him out of his custody.
The whole scheme was finely matured in his mind; would that he could be
at peace in regard to the stranger’s identity! He would then know which
course to follow.

He was still excogitating the hard matter, and forever twisting and
turning it over, when, even as the night before, a stranger knocked on
the door, and obtruded himself within the inn kitchen.

This time the visitor was humble enough. He was a tall, loose,
shambling fellow, so discoloured by dirt and an outdoor life that he
was as brown as a berry. His hat was low over his eyes; he wore a
stained and torn pair of breeches, made of leather, and a jerkin of
the same character. He had the appearance of a hedger and ditcher, or a
woodman beset by adversity. The first words he uttered confirmed this
impression.

“Are you wanting a serving-man or a drawer, good master?” he said,
seating himself on a stool opposite the landlord.

The worthy Gamaliel regarded him keenly and suspiciously. The fellow
looked an idle vagabond enough. Yet his swarthy countenance was not
altogether destitute of a certain intelligence. He had a pair of keen,
observing, humorous eyes to his face; there was a certain impudence and
audacity about them which was sufficient to redeem their owner from the
commonplace. The landlord, himself no mean observer, and a penetrating
judge of his fellows, was rather interested by him. It was not usual to
find a man of this type who merited looking at twice.

“And even if I do, sirrah?” asked Gamaliel, taking up his visitor’s
question, after scrutinising him from head to heel.

“Well, master, if you do,” said the fellow, readily, “you would be
acting a charity by giving a poor man a chance to serve you.”

“I do not doubt it,” said the landlord. “But if your looks be a true
credential, I may live to rue the day. Upon my life, I never saw a
countenance I like so little. If my eyes do not deceive me, I take ye
to be a rogue of the first magnitude; a villain that I should fear to
turn my back upon.”

The fellow laughed. Perchance it was well he did so. For in his laugh
there was something frank and human. His lowering face grew vastly more
engaging; and the landlord set the candour of it to his favour.

“Ah! master,” he said, “you are very hard upon a poor wight who knows
not where t