
in his mind that the man was dead. The silence upstairs was so extreme;
besides, an intangible sense of foreboding seemed to invade and
presently possess, not only the atmosphere of the dismal old inn, but
the minds of those dwelling in it.

Cicely went about in tears. The tender-hearted wench was sure something
terrible had happened to the poor young gentleman. Her master swore at
her, but he could not relieve his own mind of her fears. Joseph, his
son, was also afraid: it was true that he and the serving-maid were
singularly often in sympathy, more often than Gamaliel cared about. He
would have got rid of her long ago, were she not such an industrious,
capable girl. Then, again, a shadow seemed to hang over the mind, or
what there was of it, of his new drawer. He had hardly spoken a word,
and every task he was set to, whether it was cutting faggots or washing
the floor, he performed in a perfunctory and absent manner. Indeed,
the first day he spent in the service of his new master was not to the
satisfaction of the landlord. A more idle, more incapable fellow, he
vowed he had never beheld. He would take the first chance of getting
rid of him when he had served his turn. Twice during the day he had had
to kick him up from the straw in the stable, where he had discovered
him fast asleep.

At last, when the darkness had come again, the landlord once more
resolved to allay his doubts. His nausea of the night before was merged
in his overmastering curiosity. Summoning Will Jackson, he again had
recourse to the ladder; and being at the mercy of his passions, he
again had the temerity first to ascend himself.

No sooner, however, were his feet on the ladder, than a latent sense
of horror was quickened within him. The bitter winter evening biting
his ears, the moans of the sea, the gloom, the insecurity of hanging
by one’s icy fingers in mid-air, all came upon him as a special
reminiscence, and reproduced his pangs of the night before. And no
sooner had he cocked his eyes over the shutter than they were greeted
by a face as pallid as the sheets in which it lay. The man was asleep.
Many evidences of pain had vanished from his countenance; indeed, his
slumber looked as natural as it was profound. Then it began to dawn on
the landlord that this was the peace of death. The sweat broke out on
the watcher’s face. Why, in the fiend’s name, had he ventured up that
ladder a second time, when there was a loathsome, ugly corpse at the
top to greet him!

So if this was the King, the King was dead. Poor young man! he had died
under the knife, perchance. But why had he been so unthoughtful as to
die at the “Sea Rover”? There wo