are not reflected by
surrounding objects. Hence, moonlight is cold, whilst the sunlight is
warm owing to their presence.

When measuring these low luminosities, the various colours will in a
great measure disappear. Part of the spectrum will be of that peculiar
grey which was shown you in the experiment with the incandescent
light (p. 34). By further experiment it is possible to arrive at an
approximate determination of the point where all colour vanishes from
the different parts of the spectrum. We use the same apparatus (Fig.
24) as before, the only difference being that each of the sectors
is movable during rotation. The apertures of those through which
the colour passes are reduced till all colour on the screen just
disappears, the point being arrived at by a comparison with the white,
which is itself also reduced. The apertures of the first sector alone
need be noted, and from these readings the diagram (Fig. 26) is made
(for measures, see page 216).

[Illustration: FIG. 26.]

This extinction of colour is one which often occurs, but is seldom
noticed. The figure tells us that the orange is about the last colour
of the spectrum left, some of the others still appearing as greys. The
next to retain its colour is the green, and the most rapid to lose them
are the red and violet. It must not be supposed that the colours remain
of the same hue up to the time that they vanish. Pure spectrum red (red
sensation) remains the same up to the last, but the scarlet becomes
orange, and the orange yellower, and the green bluer. This is what
would be predicted from the Young theory if the order of extinction of
sensation be red, green, violet. This we shall see is the case. At
nightfall in the summer the order of disappearance of colour may often
be seen; orange flowers may be plainly visible, yet a red geranium
may appear black as night; the green grass will be grey when the
colour of the yellow flowers may yet be just visible. An early morning
start in the autumn before daybreak will give an ample opportunity of
satisfying oneself as to the order in which colours gradually re-appear
as daybreak approaches. Red flowers will be at the outset black,
whilst other colours will be visible as grey. As more light comes from
the sky the pale yellow and blue flowers will next be distinguished,
though the grass may still be a nondescript grey. Then, as the light
still increases, every colour will burst out, if not in their full
brilliance, yet into their own undoubted hue.




CHAPTER IX.


Not only, however, may we lose a sense of colour, but we may also
lose all sense of light by reducing the energy of the different rays.
We have seen that colour goes unequally from the different parts of
the spectrum. We may therefore prognosticate that the light itself
may disappear more rapidly from some parts than from others. You will
scarcely, however, I think, be prepared for the enormous difference
which exists in the stages of disappearance of the grey of the reduced
red and of that of the redu