 on the King, who had
his back towards him. He lay as weak and helpless as a child from the
effects of his malady; but his hands were clenched on the coverlet, his
white cheeks gleamed, his eyes blazed. He strove impotently to rise
from his pillows, but fell back upon them gasping for breath.

The distinct sounds of his struggle were heard by the King. He desisted
from his absorbing occupation, and turned round to discover their cause.

“Ha! Farnham,” he said, coolly, “so you are awake at last. I have heard
of that little affair of the bullet. I must, indeed, rejoice with
you that you have struggled so valiantly against its effects; I am
overjoyed, my dear Farnham, to find you so far recovered.”

The unhappy husband could not repress his fury. Again he strove to rise
from his bed, and again he fell back, this time with a sob of anguish,
upon his pillows. The King’s smile grew more serene.

“There--there, my dear Farnham,” said the even, gracious tones of
Charles; “be wary, I pray you. Be discreet. I am sure you are not yet
strong enough to leave your bed to greet me; I beg you not to think
of doing so. Why, man, my lady tells me ’tis a miracle that thou art
alive.”

The poor husband was unable to speak; rage and his weakness rendered
him inarticulate.

The King continued to smile upon him with a gracious insouciance that
maddened more than it soothed.

“There, there, my dear Farnham,” he said, “do not attempt to converse.
I am sure you are far too weak as yet to regale us with your talk. Do
not try, I pray you. I am sure madam will entertain us admirably in the
meantime.”

It may have been that the unhappy young man discerned an underlying
irony in the King’s words which, superadded to the burning sense of
humiliation he had already suffered at his hands, turned his blood to
fire; for at least the King’s smooth sarcasm spurred him at last to
find his tongue.

“Sire,” he said, weakly, “methinks my family merits some little
consideration at your hands. They have served you long and faithfully,
and your father also. I beg you, Sire, to forgive my mentioning their
trifling claims upon your gratitude, but I would crave a boon.”

“You have but to put a name upon it, dear Farnham,” said the
magnanimous Prince. “No one can be more deeply conscious of the
services your family hath rendered ours than we are. Madam will tell
you that that was the very theme upon our lips as you lay asleep. We
pray you to mention this boon, dear Farnham.”

“It is, Sire,” said the unhappy husband, “that one of us two does not
leave this chamber alive. Madam, I must ask you to have the g