per.
By the colour discs also we can do exactly the same by introducing, if
necessary, a small quantity of white or black, or both, to dilute the
colour or to darken its tone.

Another application of the same principles enables us to produce an
artificial spectrum by means of a red, a green, and a blue glass. By
fixing these three glasses behind properly shaped apertures cut in a
card disc at proper radial distances from the centre, and rotating
the disc, we have upon the screen when light is passed through them a
ring of rainbow colours. If the beam of light be first passed through a
suitable rectangular aperture, the breadth of which is small compared
with its length, placed close to the rotating disc, and an image of the
aperture be focussed on the screen by a suitable lens, we shall have
a very fair representation of the spectrum--every colour intermediate
between the red and green, or the green and blue, being formed by
mixtures of these pairs respectively.

We have now given a very fair proof that vision is really
trichromic--that is, that it is unnecessary to have more than the
sensations of three colours to produce the sensation of any of the
others.

[Illustration: FIG. 10.]

There is one colour, if it may be called so, that has not been shown
you, and whether it is a simple colour or not cannot be stated. It
seems, however, to be the basis of all other colours, since they all
commence with it. It would, perhaps, be preferable to call it the
first perception of light instead of a colour. We can exhibit this in
a fairly easy manner by a little artifice. An incandescent lamp is
before you, and a current from a battery passing through the carbon
thread causes it to glow brightly. In the circuit, however, I have
introduced what is known as a resistance, which consists of a very
large number of square pieces of carbonized linen, pressed more or less
tightly together. By means of a screw the pressure can be varied. When
the pressure is somewhat relaxed, the resistance to the passage of the
current is increased, and the carbon thread glows less brightly; and by
a still greater release of pressure, the light can be made to disappear
altogether. A beaker (Fig. 10) which we have here is covered with thin
blotting paper, and when placed over the incandescent glow-lamp it
appears as a luminous yellow cylinder, the colour being due to that of
the light within it. We can next insert more resistance in the circuit,
and it becomes red, due to the ruddy light of the thread. By inserting
still more resistance into the circuit the red fades away, but in the
darkness of this lecture theatre the beaker is still a luminous object,
though faintly so. It has no colour, and the only sensation it provokes
is one of light. Taking off the beaker, we see that the carbon thread
is a dull _red_ and nothing more. The passage of this light through
the white blotting paper so reduces it that the red is non-existent,
and the initial sensation is all we perceive.

Placing a piece of red, green, or 