ng a maximum between D and E. From E to one-third beyond F
towards G the colour is mixed, varying from “yellow” to “blue,” and
becoming neutral or “white” at a point near F. In this part of the
spectrum the total intensity, as given by the dotted line, is decidedly
less than on either side of it, and near the line F, the retina close
to the “yellow spot” is less sensible to light than the parts further
from the axis of the eye. This peculiarity of the light near F is even
more marked in the colour blind than in the ordinary eye. Beyond F the
“blue” element comes to a maximum between F and G, and then diminishes
towards H, the spectrum from this maximum to the end being pure “blue.”

The results given above were all obtained with the light of white
paper, placed in clear sunshine. I have obtained similar results when
the sun was hidden, by using the light of uniformly illuminated clouds,
but I do not consider these observations sufficiently free from
disturbing circumstances to be employed in calculation. It is easy,
however, by means of such observations, to verify the most remarkable
phenomena of colour blindness, as, for instance, that the colours
from red to green appear to differ only in brightness, and that the
brightness may be made identical by changing the width of the slit;
that the colour near F is a neutral tint, and that the eye in viewing
it sees a dark spot in the direction of the axis of vision; that the
colours beyond are all blue of different intensities, and that any
“blue” may be combined with any “yellow” in such proportions as to
form “white.” These results I have verified by the observations of
another colour-blind gentleman, who did not obtain sunlight for his
observations; and as I have now the means of carrying the requisite
apparatus easily, I hope to meet with other colour-blind observers, and
to obtain their observations under more favourable circumstances.


MEASUREMENTS OF COLOUR FIELDS.

Some experiments in the measurement of the colour fields in the
horizontal direction with the pure spectrum colours will help to show
what importance is to be attached to the luminosity of the colour and
the size of the spot of light with which the observations are made. A
yellow and a blue of the spectrum were taken of such hues that when
mixed they formed a patch of white light similar to the electric light.
Their luminosities were measured, and the yellow found to be 1·6 of the
light of an amyl-acetate lamp or 1·28 standard candles; the blue was
1/24 of this luminosity. The fields for these two colours were measured
by automatically throwing spots of each colour separately on a white
card which moved round a centre over which the eye was placed. The
light was subsequently diminished to ½, ¼, and ⅛ of the above values,
and readings again made. The following results were obtained with a
spot of ·7 inch diameter:--

                    Yellow.                       Blue.
  Light.  --------------------------   ---------