the noble passion of her countenance.
He had never seen a face so glorious. However, it did but confirm the
satisfaction he took from his present case. He was more than content.
To-morrow would be soon enough to begin his irksome toils again.

He loved to hear the throbbing tones of the woman; he loved to gaze
upon her face. The passionate tenderness that suffused her was like a
great and aged wine, that lulled his blood and warmed it, and made it
sweeter in the veins. Languid and indifferent as he was, sparks were
kindled in his eyes, and they were there for all to see. The woman saw
them. She shuddered, even as the prayer was on her lips. They seemed to
stop the beatings of her heart.

The husband saw the King’s eyes, too. The old hatred and jealous rage
were smouldering in him still. It would not call for much to fan them
into flame. His hands were clenched once more on the coverlet, a red
spot burned dully in the centre of his dead white cheeks. Involuntarily
he added a prayer of his own to that of his wife.

“Go, Sire, go!” he cried; “go now, else thou wilt be surely ta’en.”

The husband’s tones, however, had the passion without the magnetic
quality of the wife’s. They grated on the King’s ear. He looked up a
little startled at the man in the bed, and then he smiled.

“The solicitude of our friends,” he said, “grows more and
more remarkable. Never was a monarch encompassed by so much
disinterestedness.”

The sneer was so slight as to be hardly perceptible, but poor Farnham
felt ready to slay him for it. That young man, however, by his
ill-timed interposition, had retarded rather than advanced the end he
wished to attain. The King settled himself more snugly upon his chair.
He even requested the permission of the lady to put his weary legs
upon the settle standing beside the bed. He asked her to allow him to
have recourse to tobacco. A spice of mischief had now been added to his
inclination. He was more firmly resolved than ever that on this day he
would take his ease in his inn, in congenial society. Let to-morrow
come when it might; let the consequences be what they may.

The unhappy lady read the King’s doom in his demeanour. Everything was
lost. Only too well did she know that the man downstairs would eagerly
utilise each second the King tarried at his inn for his own profit.
Despair seized her. There was nothing to be done in the face of his
appalling indifference and his wilfulness. She knew, as surely as he
set his legs on the settle and rested his back against her husband’s
bed with something of a subtle, humorous mockery, that his fate was
sealed. Her foreboding heart told 