hore at that hour of the
night? He met with the same reply, but this time there seemed a deeper
fervour in it.

Gamaliel was so angry at his disillusion, that his first thought was to
refuse admittance to these travellers. But then in a flash there came a
second thought. They were refugees, of course. How foolish of him not
to have surmised that. They might not be royal personages, yet might
they not have their value too?

The next moment he had unbarred the door. Sure enough, a woman was on
the threshold. She was masked and cloaked like one who had journeyed
far: the white rime was heavy on her garments and her hair; and she
looked more dead than alive with the piercing cold. Her hands shook
visibly as one held her horse’s rein, and the other gathered up her
riding-coat.

“I give you welcome, madam,” said the landlord, making his best leg.

He smirked and bowed as humbly as he could. He was not ill pleased by
the appearance of the woman. It was sad indeed, but there was that in
her bearing that plainly said she was a person of condition.

“I beseech you to succour us,” she said, with great entreaty. “My
husband is stricken sore, and so spent with traveling that he must die
to-night out in the cold if you do not help us.”

“God forbid!” said the landlord, piously. He liked the sweetness and
the candour of her bearing. His curiosity was stimulated by it too. She
thanked him with a grave simplicity, and went forth to her companion.
The landlord followed with his assistance. He could dimly discern by
the candle-light coming through the open door a second horse, sorely
distressed by an infinite journeying. There was little to be seen of
its rider beyond a shrunk, cloaked figure, huddling low to the saddle.

“My poor lad,” said the woman, staggering to his side, “there is a roof
and a fire for you at last.”

She gave him her shoulder. The rider swayed towards it, and leaned
so heavily upon her that Gamaliel, bustling forward with his aid,
marvelled that he did not bear her to the ground.

“Don’t let ’em touch me,” the rider said in a whisper of querulous
anguish. “Tell ’em to keep off.”

Amid a few groans and a few curses, the unhappy traveller was half led,
half borne within on the shoulder of his wife.

“Oh, the poor gentleman!” exclaimed the servant-maid, setting the
best chair near the fire and placing a soft pillow upon it. She then
ran to procure an armful of fresh logs, while Joseph took the horses
to the stable. The stricken man was put by the hearth, and his wife,
distressed and fatigued as she was, tended him with an unremitting
diligence. She took off his hat, 