The Project Gutenberg eBook of Patricia at the inn
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Patricia at the inn

Author: J. C. Snaith

Contributor: W. B. M. Ferguson

Illustrator: Harry B. Matthews

Release date: April 17, 2024 [eBook #73409]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: B. W. Dodge and Company, 1906

Credits: D A Alexander, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PATRICIA AT THE INN ***


[Illustration:

  PATRICIA
  at the
  INN

  by
  J. C. SNAITH

  _Author of
  Broke of Covenden_

  _Illustrated by_
  H·B·MATTHEWS]




  COPYRIGHT, 1906
  BY
  B. W. DODGE AND COMPANY
  New York




INTRODUCTORY NOTE


Charles Stuart, of song and legend, subsequently the “Merry Monarch,”
King Charles Second, is perhaps the most romantic figure in English
history. Much has been said of him; little good, much evil; but at
all events whatever his shortcomings and capitulations to the flesh,
it cannot but be conceded that he is the focussing point for all the
speculation and cogitation of the romanticist. He gave to history a
chapter of sovereignty replete with debauchery and misrule. But there
was occasional worthy reading between the lines; reading that conveyed
friendship, faith, and loyalty.

The incidents of the following narrative, “Patricia at the Inn,”
purport to deal with Charles Stuart’s adventures immediately subsequent
to the historical battle of Worcester. It will be remembered that
following the execution of the ill-fated Charles the First, the
Prince of Wales was crowned by the Scottish people at Scone, January
1, 1651. Oliver Cromwell was not to be declared Lord Protector of
the Commonwealth until almost two years later, but already he had
stamped his inexorable will upon the nation. Prince Charlie backed by
twenty thousand men marched upon Stirling, determined to enforce the
sovereignty of the Stuart dynasty and by right of blood and sword to
teach this upstart man of the people that sovereigns were born, not
made, and that the memory of the “martyred king” shoul