
them. She felt dimly that she was the source of this quarrel.

“Sire,” she said, “may I crave a boon of you also?”

“We pray you to do so,” said Charles.

“Let me beseech you to leave this chamber, Sire, now--instantly.”

“To do that,” said the King, “we must break our promise to my lord. And
is not a promise of such a nature the most sacred compact that can be
made? But, madam, let us crave a similar boon of you. We would have
you quit this chamber, too.”

“I cannot quit it, Sire,” she said, firmly.

“Not until thou hast got me from my bed and set me on my legs,” her
husband said, weakly. “Then, Patsy woman, thou must do as the King bids
thee. Come, now, I am about to rise. Give me your shoulder.”

The wife stirred not a finger, although the man in the bed, gasping
for breath and the purple veins swelling in his forehead, contrived to
raise himself on his two hands. But he could get no further; he fell
back in distress upon his pillows.

“You are much too weak to quit your couch, my dear Farnham,” said
Charles. “Even if you could be got upon your legs, you would never be
able to keep them. But I think we can contrive it otherwise. We must
support you in your present place. Madam will lend her aid, I trust.”

The woman, however, would not heed the words of the King. She hung
back, convulsed with terror. Charles, laughing a little still,
prepared to do the office himself. He took young Lord Farnham in his
arms, lifted him up among the sheets into a sitting posture, and made
a wall of his pillows to keep him in it. The lad’s skin seemed to
burn the arms of his monarch like a live coal; his whole frame shook
and quivered; he was racked with a hectic weakness he was striving
to control. The King, having at last fixed him deftly thus, turned
triumphantly towards the lady.

“Confess, madam,” he said, “that you would not think, to look at us,
that we had such a cunning in attendance on the sick. And now we must
ask you to leave us for a minute. Only for a minute, madam; we will not
deny you longer, we do promise you.”

“No, Sire,” she answered, firmly, “I cannot go; I will not go. Harry,
art thou mad?”

“I think I am,” said the young man, sitting up among the pillows, in a
voice so small and querulous it sounded like a child’s. “I think I am.”

“I will not stand by and see a murder done,” said the woman, with a
sudden resolution. “Sire, my poor lad is unhinged; he is not sane. I
beseech you not to heed him.”

“Sane or mad,” said the King, “whenever our family can make a requital
to his in the smallest particular, Charles Stuart s