d. The music of iron upon adamant rang
nearer at every clock-tick. They were coming to the inn. What could it
mean? Gamaliel was not expecting visitors to-night. Yet stay, he was!
Was there not this young man of the sailor’s? Again Gamaliel put his
ear to the shutter, to withdraw it suddenly, however, with a spasm of
fear.

It was not one horse alone on the road; rather a company. He had heard
the rattle of sword and breast-piece; besides, the regulated manner
of approach told the nervous landlord that the law had come to his
inn at last. For years he had expected it. But now it was at his
threshold, God knew he was in no case to greet it. Could it be that his
misdemeanours, stealthy and hidden as they were, had been uncovered,
and that now he was to be called on to pay the penalty!

For a minute the landlord faltered. He surrendered his mind to fear.
Again the sweat burst out of him; it glistened on his white cheeks; he
could not restrain the convulsive twitch of his old, irresolute hands.
It was for only a minute, however. Gamaliel’s mind recurred to the
fugitive of the mariner’s, and once more he became himself. Of course,
these on-coming soldiers were seeking that mysterious youth. What a
fool he was to be frightened so easily!

In the comfort of this thought Master Gamaliel wiped the sweat from
his face, drained his glass, and made ready to receive his unwelcome
visitors grandly. He opened his portals, even before they knocked upon
them; and, standing in the full light of the fire and the candles as it
met the darkness and the sea-fog, he inquired their pleasure with a
bow and his hand on his heart.

Through the driving mists of the night, steaming horses, and cold,
rime-coated men clad in morions and corselets of steel, were visible.
The foremost of these soldiers sprang from his steed briskly and strode
past the landlord into the warm kitchen of the inn. He was a nimble,
ruddy little fellow, with a human look to his countenance, and, for all
the cold night, a cheerful way with him.

“Landlord,” said he, clapping his wet form to the face of the fire,
“you see us highly in need of your kindness. Brew us your hottest
posset in your biggest bowl, and waste no time upon it. We have come
far, but we have further to go by many a weary mile, unless our fortune
is kinder than it promises.”

“Yes, yes, Captain, to be sure,” said the landlord; “you shall drink of
the best of my poor hostelry, and that right speedily.”

Master Hooker, his fears allayed by the frank good humour of the
soldier’s demeanour, became the pattern of a host. He called his
son and his serving-maid to procure the liquor an