s.
Landlord, I asked you a minute since for a cup of sack. ’Od’s fish! you
must obey me, landlord; I am no longer your servitor, to be kicked and
cuffed and bullied, but your King. I wonder if the royal coat was ever
tarnished with such dirty hands before.”

The King looked a little deprecatingly at the sleeve of his leather
jerkin. In lieu of the morose, thick-witted Will Jackson, he now
stood forth a frank and jovial rogue enough. For all the disguise of
his dirt and his rags, his kingship seemed suddenly to make him a
gentleman. As a serving-man or a wandering vagabond he would still
have been excellent; but granted his kingliness, he made no such very
bad specimen of a monarch. The title shone forth in his swarthy looks,
added a freedom to his manners, and a grace to his bearing, as, in
the fashion of a simple commoner, he drank his sack and munched his
nuncheon, and offered words of gallantry and comfort to his beautiful,
distressed companion. But in the absence of the title, he would still
have done very well for Will Jackson. As is the way with many another,
the coat was the man. It required the label of King to make him one;
but once affixed, it certainly suited him admirably.

“Is my lord strong enough to receive me,” he asked the lady as he
disposed of the last morsel of his bread and meat.

“I pray that he may ever be strong enough to receive your Majesty,”
said the lady, fervently. “May I conduct you to his chamber, Sire?”

The King and the lady went together up the creaking old stairs. The
landlord rubbed his hands across his bewildered eyes. He then sat down
suddenly, or rather fell, into his chair at the side of the hearth.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  IX

  _The man in
  Bed_]


When the king came softly into the chamber, the stricken man lay
pale in his pillows, asleep. The sufferer, now that the grave crisis
of his malady was past--it having come to its head on the night the
bullet was taken from his body--looked fairer and more youthful than
ever. He hardly appeared more than a boy. As he lay in his present
unconsciousness, much of the petulance had gone out of his countenance;
there was a tender and even sweet expression round his lips; and in
many ways his face was far better to look upon than on the sad night of
his arrival at the inn.

“Harry,” said his wife, in an eager tone, “open your eyes and look at
his Majesty; the King hath come to see you.”

The sufferer, however, was too deeply asleep to be aroused by the soft
tones of the woman.

“Do not disturb him, I pray,” said Charles. “I would not do him the
least disservice for the world, not even