 given in these lectures
were brought by Mr. Nettleship, for the information of the Colour
Vision Committee of the Royal Society, and by his permission they are
reproduced here.

[Illustration: FIG. 38.

_Left Eye._    _Right Eye._]

Two other cases I may give in some detail, one in which the sensation
of colour is totally absent in the left eye, the right eye being
normal; and the other in which there is colour blindness of a very rare
character. The first case is that of a lady, whom we will call Miss W.
It appears from the history of this lady that she had a slight stroke
of paralysis which affected her left side, and that she subsequently
found her left eye was deprived of all sensation of colour. It is said
by the specialists who examined her retina that this is a case of
atrophy of the optic nerve. She had very little difficulty in matching
the most brilliant spectrum colours with the white patch of light.
Her curve of luminosity is given in Fig. 39 (see table, page 228). At
19 of the scale, which is well in the blue, she had very little sense
of light, though her extinction curve shows that it extended to some
distance beyond. The eye in which normal vision existed was, during the
examination of the defective eye, bound up with a handkerchief, and
when occasionally she was allowed to use both eyes, her astonishment
was great to see the colours which she had matched with the white. The
curve of luminosity taken with her right eye coincided with my own,
which throughout we have taken as normal. From her extinction curve we
gather that there was a marked diminution of sensitiveness to light
in her left eye compared with that of normal vision. Apparently, in
that eye she only has 1/25 of the normal sensitiveness to light near E
in the green, but her extinction curve takes the same general form as
that of the normal eye. The difference between the sets of ordinates
of the two indicates the difference in sensitiveness for each part of
the spectrum.

[Illustration: FIG. 39.]

Her persistency curve as calculated occupies the same position and is
of about the same dimensions, when the maximum is made 100, as that of
the normal eye, as it is therefore of red- and green-blind, and also
of the two cases of monochromatic vision. We have in Miss W. a type of
colour blindness which no present theory of colour vision accounts for
without straining; and it would probably have to refer it to the seat
of sensation rather than to the retina alone.

[Illustration: FIG. 40.

The thin line curve is the curve of luminosity for the normal eye.]

The second is a case of congenital colour blindness and with no trace
of disease, brought by Mr. Nettleship to the same Committee. He found
that this lady, N. W., mistook blue for red, and it was with some
curiosity that this case was examined. Her first examination was as to
colour sense with the spectrum colours, a patch of monochromatic light
being placed in juxtaposition with an equal patch of white light. At
62·5 (λ 6890) of the scale t