lour blindness--as the gout is said to do--skips a
generation. This is usually traced to the fact that the generation
skipped is through the mother. Thus, the maternal grandfather may
be colour blind, as may be the grandsons, but the mother will very
frequently have perfectly normal vision for colour. On the other hand,
the paternal grandfather may have defective colour perception, and this
may be inherited both by the grandsons and the father. The remark made
by Dalton regarding his brother’s eyesight points to the fact that his
own colour blindness was probably hereditary. Deaf mutes, Jews and
Quakers, seem to be more liable to colour blindness than other people,
statistics giving them 13·7, 4·9, and 5·9 as the percentages. It may
be well to point out that the deficiency in colour perception to which
we are alluding is totally distinct from that which may arise from
disease. This last form has such marked characteristics of its own that
it can at once be distinguished from the congenital form.

Of the four per cent. of males who suffer from congenital colour
deficiency of vision, a large number are not totally lacking in any
one or more colour sensations. Those in which one sensation, on the
Young theory, is entirely missing are called “completely red-, green-,
or violet-blind,” whilst those in which the sensation is but partially
deadened are called “partially red-, green-, or violet-blind.”
When two sensations are entirely absent, and such cases are very
rare indeed, they are generally said to have monochromatic vision;
that is, every colour to them is the same, as is also white, the
only distinction between any of them being the superior brightness
of some over others. The best illustration of this form of colour
vision is perhaps to say that the retinæ of such people have the same
characteristics in regard to sensitiveness as has a photographic
plate, the resulting prints in black and white representing what it
sees in nature. When we have to adopt the terms used by the followers
of Hering’s theory--the theory which obtains most followers amongst
the physiologists, since it endeavours to explain colour vision in a
physiological way, though it fails to meet all the requirements of the
physicist--we should restrict our terms to red-green and yellow-blue
blindness, still perhaps retaining the term monochromatic vision for
the rare cases specified above. As we must employ some terms to express
our meaning, we shall in these lectures adopt those of the Young theory.

Now taking a red-blind person and examining him with the spectrum, we
find that he sees no light at all at the extreme limit of our red,
and only when he comes to the part where the red lithium line marks
a certain red does a glimmer commence; he then sees what he may call
dark-green, or he may call dark-yellow. When questioned about what to
us are greens he also calls them green or yellow, some being bright,
others saturated hues, and others again paler. When he gets to the
bluish-green he calls i