nant
wave-length of 6300. The green is an emerald-green, and has a dominant
wave-length of 5150. The blue is French ultra-marine, with a dominant
wave-length of 4700. The card discs, of some 4 inches diameter, are
coated with these colours as pastes, and by making an incision in them
radially to the centre, as before described, and inter-locking them,
the compound disc can be caused to show sectors of any angle that
may be required. Outside these are the discs of black and white, the
proportions of which can be altered at will.

The light thrown on the rotating sectors being that from an electric
arc light, normal vision requires 118° of red, 146° of green, and 96°
of blue to match a grey made up of 75 parts of white and 285 parts of
black. For the last two numbers a correction has been made to allow for
the small amount of white light reflected from the black surface. This
correction has also been made in the subsequent matches which will be
described. Colour mixtures such as these are conveniently put in the
form of equations, and that given will then be shown as follows--

                  118 R + 146 G + 96 U = 75 W + 285 B.

(Here R, G, U, W, and B are used to indicate Red, Green, Blue, White,
and Black.)

This match was exact also for all the colour blind, for the deficiency
in one grey is also a deficiency in the other. With a red-blind,
however, very different matches can be made, as the red pigment is
a complex colour. There is in it, besides red, a certain amount of
yellow, whilst in the green there is, besides green, a small amount of
a red and a larger amount of yellow. The yellow will not only stimulate
the green sensation, but also the red where it is present. Although
in complete red-blindness the red sensation is totally absent, we may
expect that a mixture of red and blue, as well as of green and blue,
will enable a match to be made of the grey produced by the mixture of
white and black.

This was the case. We have the following proportions--

                      295 R + 65 U = 45 W + 315 B.

When the green disc is substituted for the red, the red-blind made the
following mixture--

                     229 G + 131 U = 120 W + 240 B.

It is worth noticing that the amount of blue in the first mixture is
about half that required for the second. This tells us that the amount
of green sensation stimulated in the first case is much less than in
the second. As red can be substituted for green, it should follow that
green, when rendered darker, should match the red. To try this a red
disc replaced the black disc, and a black disc replaced the blue. The
following match was then made--

                     131 G + 229 B = 340 R + 20 W.

It seems impossible to believe that these mixtures, so dissimilar in
colour, could ever form a satisfactory match. This last equation might
have been derived from the two first, in which case it would have
stood--

                     137 G + 223 B = 342 R + 18 W.

By a completely green-blind the following mixture