f a certain quantity of the colour to which is attached a negative
sign were to be abstracted--an impossible condition to fulfil, but
one which may often occur in colour-matching experiments. Later you
will find that when colours are chosen as standards so that the
resulting equations give no negative sign for any colour, we have a
criterion as to the colours which give the nearest approach to the
true sensations. The next diagram (Fig. 16) of colour sensations is
due to Kœnig, who investigated the subject with Von Helmholtz. By a
modified method, which perhaps need not be explained in detail here,
he produced them, and they must be apparently not far from the actual
state of things, supposing this theory be proved to be true. For my
own part, I am under the impression that the positions of the colours
which most nearly approach the colour sensations might be slightly
altered in regard to the green and the blue, for reasons that will
subsequently be given when the later experiments of General Festing
and myself come to be described. For the immediate purpose of the
lecture, the curves are sufficiently accurate, and I will ask you to
notice what they tell us. It is presupposed in these diagrams that,
if the three colour-perceiving apparatus are equally stimulated, a
sensation of white will be produced; and the reverse, of course, is
true, in that white will give rise to equal stimulation of the three
apparatus. It follows, then, that in the parts of the spectrum where
all three curves of sensation are seen to take a part in the production
of a colour, such as at the E line, the colour is really due to the
extra stimulation of one or two of the apparatus above that required
to produce a certain amount of white. _The colour in every part of
the spectrum may be represented by not more than two sensations, with
a proportion of white._ In the orange and scarlet there are only two
sensations excited, without any sensible amount of white, as the
amount of violet sensation is extremely small. At the extreme ends of
the spectrum only one sensation--the red or the violet--is excited; but
in the region of the green the colour must be largely diluted with the
sensation of white. As an example, we may take the part of the spectrum
where the red and the violet sensation curves cut each other. At this
point the green sensation curve rises higher than the intersection
of the other curves. The red and the violet sensations have only to
be mixed with an equal amount of the green sensation to make white,
so that the height of the green sensation curve above the point of
intersection represents the amount of pure green sensation which is
stimulated. The colour is therefore caused by the green sensation,
largely diluted with white. A scrutiny of the curves will show that
at no point is the green sensation so free from any other as at this
point, if we regard white by itself as a neutral colour. Looking at
these figures, we can readily see what effect the removal of any one
or two of the three sensati