se.

“Open the door, mate, d’ye hear me?” demanded Diggory Fargus.

A terrific blow shook the lusty oak. Still the landlord leant sickly
against the wall.

The lady appeared at the head of the stairs, cloaked, masked, and
gloved for a journey. Hearing that her deliverers were at hand, she ran
down the stairs, and, not heeding the helpless landlord, thrust back
the bolts, the chain, and the lock of the kitchen door.

The mariner and three companions as rude and ill-favoured as himself
stepped out of the night.

“We’re behind our time, ma’am,” said Diggory Fargus; “but, d’ye see, at
half-past nine we had to tack and go about, for the place was full of
soldiers. We supposed they had come to take ye, but we thought it our
dooty to return and satisfy ourselves.”

“God requite you, sailor,” said the woman, fervently. “My husband
is still upstairs. But let us make all haste, for at any moment his
enemies may return upon him.”

Even as the woman spoke, the pale figure of a man tottered down the
stairs. Clinging tightly to the rail, he put one weak limb before the
other and reached the kitchen before they had observed him. He too was
fully accomplished for the journey.

“Oh, mine own,” said the woman, tenderly, “what a foolish valour! ’Tis
ever the same headstrong, wilful, heedless fellow. Did I not order you
to stay upstairs until we fetched you? Thou art much too weak to use
thine own legs as yet, lad.”

“Peace, Patsy woman,” said the young man. “If I can walk into this
accursed place, I can walk out of it. I am hale and strong by
comparison with what I was when I came here with the bullet in my side.
Landlord, give me a cup of wine, and I shall be fit to encounter the
perils of the sea. Deuce take me! what hath happened to the landlord?”

As pale as linen, his eyes staring and his knees knocking, the landlord
still clung in silence to the wall. Diggory Fargus looked at him
grimly. Lying in concealment close at hand when the soldiers rode away,
he had overheard the injunctions of Captain Culpeper.

“The Cap’n left particular orders,” said the mariner to the lady, “that
this ’ere son of a rum puncheon was to hold you and your mate, ma’am,
against his return, by force, if necessary. And as it goes agen his
principles to use violence o’ any sort, he’s asking of himself, d’ye
see, whether ye would take it amiss if he invited you to tarry.”

The woman looked at the landlord. None had had a fairer opportunity of
judging his character than she during her sojourn in that place. Her
eyes shone through her mask; the stern lines fell about her mouth; and
then sh