 a moment, and as it has been shown that
for all essential purposes that of Young answers, we will use it as
a good working hypothesis, and it was from this theory that Holmgren
himself reasoned. The red- or green-blind see a grey in a part of their
spectrum, which to us who possess normal colour vision is green. If
then we present such a green to them, they would match it with a grey.
If, however, we have a yellowish-green, which is pure green mixed with
red, the complete green-blind will not see the green in it, but only
the red. The colour to him would be very pale red, and as he sees all
such greens and yellows and reds as red more or less saturated, that
is, more or less mixed with his neutral colour, any one of these he
would match with a green. The red-blind, on the other hand, would see
all these colours as green, and he too might make similar matches with
them. Suppose now we have a pink skein: the green-blind would see it
as a white or bluish-white, for a purple is white to him, and he would
match with it either greys or colours having a slight excess of blue
in them; for a green is to him a neutral colour. The red-blind, on
the other hand, would see but little green in the pink; blue would
predominate, so he would choose mauves or blues amongst other matches.

Acting on these principles, Holmgren selected his test colours. He
chose wools as the most convenient for handling, and also because they
present the same colour without sheen when looked at in any direction.
His first test colour is a very pale green which contained no blue. Its
paleness is a point in its favour. The colour is quite distinguishable
by us normal-visioned persons, but it might appear as grey to the
red- and green-blind; for as we who possess normal vision may mix a
small percentage of colour with our neutral colour (white) without
it being perceived, so may they with theirs (white and green). As the
green, when it is to us saturated, would be nearly neutral coloured
to them, the very diluted colour which we see in the skein would to
them be masked by the addition of white. In any case, if any colour
be visible to them, it must be on the red side of the neutral points.
A candidate is given this skein of wool, and from a heap of over a
hundred skeins, of varying degrees of saturation, amongst which are
drabs, yellows, yellow-greens, blue-greens, purples, pinks, greys, and
so on, he is asked to select others which appear to him to be of the
same colour as the test-skein, though they may be darker or lighter. He
will, if colour blind, select some of the colours already indicated.
The second test-skein is a pink, which is a purple diluted with white,
but much less so than the green, to which it is nearly a complementary
in daylight. The candidate is required to select colours which match
this, and according to his selections is he pronounced as having
normal colour vision or as being colour defective (either completely
or partially) to the red or to the green. The case of violet blindness
is not impor