ust be provided for him at once, lest one of these
untoward things should happen. It was again the woman’s indomitable wit
that provided the stratagem. She rose from the couch as if endeavouring
to be calm at the express command of the King. The efforts she made to
control her emotion were visible to all.

“Sire,” she said to the man in the bed, “although you have signified
your intention of rising from your couch of sickness, I fear your
Majesty will not be able to do so until you have drunk of that
cordial the apothecary of Charmouth gave you. It is in your Majesty’s
saddlebag, is it not, hanging in the stable?”

Lord Farnham saw at once the significance of this. He had the wit to
grasp in which direction the ruse was leading.

“It is well thought on, madam,” he said. “And, indeed, now you speak
of it, I shall be hard put to, to rise without it. It were well if you
sent Jackson to procure it for us.”

The servitor still stood calm and impassive.

“Jackson,” said Lady Farnham, “you remember where we left his Majesty’s
cordial. It is lying in one of the saddlebags in the stable.”

Jackson bowed gravely in assent, without uttering a word, the model of
a well-trained serving-man.

“Sir,” said the lady, addressing Captain Culpeper, “will you allow this
man to get the cordial for the King? I am afraid his Majesty will find
it very needful.”

“Yes, indeed, madam,” said the soldier, eagerly. “Sergeant, tell them
to make way there for the King’s servitor. Also those on the stairs;
and do you see that they do so.”

“I thank you, sir,” said the man in the bed, with his courteous smile.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  XV

  “_Way there for the
  King’s servitor_”]


The King obediently began to move with stolid precision towards the
chamber door. First one soldier stood back to let him pass; and then
another; and then another. He walked through the door of the crowded
chamber. With the same grave, steady, mechanical gait he reached the
stairs.

“Way there,” said the officious Sergeant, behind him, “for the King’s
servitor!”

With keen looks of curiosity, the men besieging the rickety old stairs
found a passage for him somehow, through which he contrived to squeeze
the royal person. His clothes and his body pressed against their
pistols and their breast-pieces; their breaths saluted his face; but
step by step he came down into the kitchen.

“Way there for the King’s servitor!” said the Sergeant again.

The kitchen was hardly so thronged as the stairs. There was one man in
it, however, who might undo all. From his chair in the chimney 