e maximum the
two curves are practically identical, except from Scale number 54. At
this point it is probable that the white light which illuminated the
prism vitiated the readings to some degree. At the violet end something
similar, doubtless, occurs, but it is masked by the difference that
exists in the extinction by the central part of the retina and that of
the whole eye.

It must, however, be remarked that the amount of reduction of the
intensity of a ray to produce extinction is very different for B. C.
and for the normal eyed, or for the red- and green-blind or for P. and
Q. B. C. can bear nearly 200 times less reduction for the rays near
E. We have already pointed out that the same is practically the case
with M., whom we presume to be violet-blind. We may therefore deduce
the fact that the monochromatic vision in this case is of a totally
different type to that of P. and Q., and that the last sensation to be
lost is the same as that of M. If any violet sensation were present in
either, the fact would be made evident by the order of the extinction.
The sensation of B. C. is thus apparently the green sensation, though
that this particular sensation is exactly the same as that absent in
the green-blind is not certain.

The observations made by the different types of the colour blind
seem to me to throw great light on the theory of colour vision. They
show that when the violet sensation is present, according to the
Young theory, the extinction shows its presence; and that where this
sensation is absent, the reduction of light necessary to produce
extinction is greatly less, and may with great certainty be attributed
to a different sensation being the final one to disappear.




CHAPTER XI.


I have so far spoken only of normal, or physiological, colour
blindness; a peculiarity, or defect, present at birth, and, as far
as is at present known, irremediable, but not associated with any
defect of the visual functions, or with any disease or any optical
peculiarities. What the nature and seat of this defect may be--whether
in the eye or in the sensorium--is at present unknown, although some of
the characteristics of the deficiency in colour sensation, I believe,
seem to indicate the existence of a special part of the brain endowed
with the functions for perceiving colour.

But cases are well known to medical men in which colour vision,
normal to start with, fails in greater or less degree in connection
with disease. This part of the subject is large and very complex, and
requires for its full elucidation an acquaintance with the diseases
and disorders of the eye. Many of the phenomena accompanying acquired
colour blindness, however, are of great interest to the physicist
in his study of colour vision, more particularly in regard to the
test of the truth of any particular theory. Through the kindness of
several medical men, and Mr. Nettleship in particular, I have had the
opportunity of examining by the colour apparatus several types of
colour blindness due to dise