                         137


  CHAPTER XII.

  Examples of Colour Blindness due to Disease                          148


  CHAPTER XIII.

  The Holmgren Test for Colour Blindness                               167


  CHAPTER XIV.

  The Spectrum Test for Colour Blindness                               180


  CHAPTER XV.

  The Young and Hering Theories of Colour Vision Compared              187


  APPENDIX                                                             201


  INDEX                                                                229




PREFACE.


The writer had for some years past, in conjunction with General
Festing, and recently as Secretary and Member of the Colour Vision
Committee of the Royal Society, carried out a series of investigations
on colour vision, and selected that subject when he was invited, in
1894, to deliver the Tyndall Lectures at the Royal Institution.

The brief time allotted for these lectures--an hour on three successive
Saturday afternoons--restricted the discussion of some aspects of the
question, and confined its treatment in the main to those features most
readily explicable by the physicist, and to bringing into notice the
latest results which had been obtained from physical experiments. How
far the writer has succeeded in the task which he then outlined it is
for the reader to determine.

There was no intention in the first instance to publish these lectures.
After their delivery, many persons expressed a desire that the
information they contained should be rendered accessible to such as
were interested in the theory of colour vision, and in deference to
that desire the lecture-notes have been re-cast in book form. For the
reader’s convenience the matter is now divided into chapters instead
of into lectures, and a few additions have been made in the text to
explain some of the experimental work to those who have not facilities
for its repetition.

The writer has to acknowledge several debts of gratitude. First, to Mr.
E. Nettleship, for his kindness in looking over the proofs, and making
valuable suggestions whilst the work was passing through the press; and
also, as will be seen throughout its pages, for many of the interesting
cases of defective colour perception which have been examined by the
somewhat novel methods described. Next, the writer’s gratitude is
due to Professor M. Foster for the permission he has given to use his
admirable description of the Hering theory; and, lastly, to the Royal
Society for the permission it accorded to use various diagrams which
have served as illustrations to papers which have appeared in its
“Philosophical Transactions” and “Proceedings.”




COLOUR VISION.




CHAPTER I.


I must commence this course by saying that I feel the honour that has
been done me in asking me to undertake it, connected as it is with the
name of Tyndall, whose recent removal from our midst has been deplored
by all lovers of science, and by none more than by those who 