was not any striking difference in the
two colours by the two lights. He then investigated his case by the
solar spectrum, and became convinced that instead of having the normal
sensations, he only had two or at most three. These were yellow, blue,
and perhaps purple. In yellow, he included the red, orange, yellow,
and green of others, and his blue and purple coincided with theirs.
He says, that “part of the image which others call red, appears to me
little more than a shade or defect of light; after that, the orange,
yellow and green seem _one_ colour, which descends pretty uniformly
from an intense and a rare yellow, making what I should call different
shades of yellow. The difference between the green part and the blue
part is very striking to my eye, they seem to be strongly contrasted.
That between the blue and purple much less so. The purple appears to be
blue much darkened and condensed.”

Dalton said a florid complexion looked blackish-blue on a white ground.
Blood looked like bottle green, grass appeared very little different
from red. A laurel leaf was a good match to a stick of sealing-wax.
Colours appeared to him much the same by moonlight as they did by
candle-light. By the electric light and lightning, they appeared as in
day light. Some browns he called red, and others black.

Mr. Babbage, in Scientific London (1874), gives an account of Dalton’s
presentation at Court.

Firstly, he was a Quaker, and would not wear a sword, which is an
indispensable appendage to ordinary Court-dress. Secondly, the robe
of a Doctor of Civil Laws was known to be objectionable on account of
its colour--scarlet, being one forbidden by the Quakers. Luckily, it
was recollected that Dalton was affected with that peculiar colour
blindness which bore his name, and that as cherries and the leaves
of a cherry-tree were to him of the same colour, the scarlet gown
would present no extraordinary appearance. So perfect evidence was the
colour blindness, that the most modest and simple of men, after having
received the Doctor’s gown at Oxford, actually wore it for several days
in happy unconsciousness of the effect he produced in the street. The
rest of the description we need not reproduce. Both the above cases
we shall see shortly come under the category of red-blindness in the
Young theory. Recent investigations tell us that such colour blindness
is by no means rare, nor can it have been then. Statistics, derived
from carefully carried out examinations made in various parts of the
world by an approved method of testing, show that about four out of
every hundred males suffer from some deficiency in colour perception,
but that so far as the more limited statistics regarding them are to be
depended upon, only about four out of every 1000 women suffer in the
same manner.

Colour blindness in a healthy subject is usually hereditary, and is
always congenital. It is curious to trace back in some instances the
colour blindness, where it is to be found, in a family. It often
happens that co