

Suddenly he withdrew his ears from a coil of sheets, and twisted
his nightcapped head half across the bed in a strained attitude of
listening.

When the sound had first assailed him, he thought it was a rat
scratching through a wainscot. But now there was the muffled grunt
of a key revolving in a lock; and then a distinct, timid patter of
footsteps. The chamber in which he lay was next to that of the lady;
she was leaving her room at last.

She was probably only descending to the buttery to procure some
necessary for her stricken companion. Or could it be that she was
making her escape from the inn? Certainly her movements were cloaked
in caution itself. He could hear her stealthy feet on the creaking
stairs. Less than a minute afterwards he sprang from his couch with an
oath; he could hear her unbarring the outer door.

The bitter darkness was a fierce enemy to the old man, but not even
it could daunt his curiosity. With many groans he swiftly grappled
with his breeches, dragged on his vest and doublet, and wriggled his
cold toes into hose and leather. The night bit him keenly, but he was
determined that this woman should not be allowed to pass out of his
house, in the dead of the night, with impunity. The landlord was sure
she could not be going forth thus with an innocent intention. And in
any case, his curiosity apart, he was the last man in the world to
neglect a chance of obtaining a weapon against her.

In the midst of these brief speculations he found himself downstairs
in the kitchen, protecting an unsteady candle with his hand. A sudden
rush of air extinguished it. He was left entirely in the dark, with no
precise knowledge of his bearings. He struck a course, however, for
the kitchen door, and found it, as he expected, open wide.

On entering the night, his face and hands were stung with the icy
kisses of the falling sleet; little waves of it were running down the
wind; the sea was crying with loud and many voices; and the hour seemed
perishingly desolate and cold. The landlord peered up the path leading
to the shore, and saw, many yards away, with the starlight playing
round it, a wind-blown figure, whose bent head and flapping cloak were
fighting hard against the blast. It was a woman struggling to the
sands, and the thing that made her form the more conspicuous was a
lantern that she bore. It picked her out in a prominence of light, and
made a mark of her for the landlord’s eyes.

Crossing the road, the innkeeper came within the shadows of the rocks.
Crouching in them, he dogged her step by step to the open sea. She
was not long upon her road. She strode forth through the very teeth
of the gale, 