said the drawer,
addressing his master, but, strangely enough, in the same authoritative
voice. “After all, is it not a little vulgar, and a little cowardly?”

The astonished landlord spluttered out a string of oaths. But he was
almost inarticulate with anger and bewilderment. A frank sparkle
of amusement showed at the same time in Will Jackson’s eyes. The
transformation of his voice was extending to his face; nay, to his
person and his bearing too. Where a minute ago there had been stolid
inanimation and indifference, were intelligence and vivacity. Where
there had been lumpishness and awkwardness of gait, were graciousness
and breeding. The fellow still wore his coarse rustic clothes, his face
was still bedaubed with dirt, but he was no longer the same person. The
landlord was slowly beginning to recognise the fact.

“What is the meaning of this?” he demanded.

It seemed that his transformed serving-man was on the point of telling
him, when the poor lady, who seemed just now to be acting in a kind of
delirium, stayed him suddenly by placing her two hands on the leathern
sleeve of his jerkin.

“No, no, no!” she cried; “it must not be. Whatever the cost, it must
not be.”

“Think of your husband’s life, madam,” said the triumphant landlord.

Neither the man nor the woman paid heed to him now, however. There
seemed some far graver matter between them.

“At all costs,” the landlord heard the woman say to his serving-man
in a hoarse whisper, “I implore you to be wise, to be discreet. It is
not for yourself alone I beseech you; think, oh! think of all that it
means.”

Her voice, too, was changing. While she spoke, it lost something of
its wildness. It still throbbed with its passion, but above it was a
yearning tenderness, a maternal solicitude that dominated it completely.

“Nay,” said Will Jackson, with his strange, cool smile again creeping
out of his eyes. “What’s the odds? I am weary to death of this farce;
it is become intolerable. And, after all, we are in the hands of God,
are we not? There is but our destiny to trust to.”

“But must we not shape it?” said the woman. “You may mitigate it, or
enhance it, by your unremitting prudence. I beseech you to remember,
all is not lost. There are still those that are your friends. Be wary,
be discreet, I pray you.”

It distinctly seemed to the landlord’s eager ears that the woman had as
great a solicitude for this fellow as her husband--nay, an even greater
one. For was she not apparently prepared to sacrifice her lord, rather
than Will Jackson should reveal the secret between them?

Gamaliel was cunning enough; but