ontemptuous carelessness; on the other a measure
of suspicion amounting to hatred. But the landlord deemed it wiser to
conceal his emotions under an appearance of friendliness. He proffered
a pipe of tobacco to the mariner.

“You’re almighty kind, mate,” said the sailor, accepting a clay pipe
from the mantelpiece and pressing in the contents of Gamaliel’s box.

It was the beginning of conversation. The landlord was eager to
discover the particular business that had carried his visitor to the
“Sea Rover,” of all the places in the world, at that hour and on such a
night. Had he a cargo for disposal; was he waiting for his ship; was he
running from the law; or had he come to cut the throats of himself, his
son, and Cicely, and afterwards to despoil the inn? Certainly a more
ill-favoured pirate he never saw.

The sailor, rather silent at first and ill-disposed to communicate his
designs, gradually thawed into talk under the benign influences of
hospitality. He even went to the length of revealing the business that
had carried him so strangely there.

“You don’t happen, mate,” says he, with a leer,--“you don’t happen to
’a’ seen a young man wandering about this here coast, do you?”

“What kind of a young man might he be like?” says the landlord.

He had seen no young man whatever. He would certainly have remarked the
smallest detail of his appearance, had he done so; for the first of all
Gamaliel Hooker’s characteristics was his inveterate curiosity. It was
this which led him to push a topic that otherwise would have had no
interest for him.

“Well, mate,” says the mariner, “he ain’t very easy to describe, d’ye
see. I’ve got to set eyes on him myself yet.”

“A seafaring man?” said the landlord.

“Not he,” said the mariner.

“Gentle or simple?” said the landlord.

The sailor hesitated an instant, while he gazed keenly at the host. He
seemed to be calculating how far he could safely take Gamaliel Hooker
into his affairs.

“Gentle enough,” he said, reluctantly. “But he’d come unattended, I
daresay; and he mought be drest like the commonalty.”

“A soldier?” asked the landlord, with a flash of inspiration.

“Never you mind,” said the other, roughly.

“But how can I tell you whether I’ve seen him or not,” said the
cunning Gamaliel, “unless I know the kind o’ young man he is?”

“Well, a soldier then,” said the unwilling mariner.

“No, I’ve not seen no proscribed Cavalier,” said the landlord.

The mariner sprang up with an oath.

“Who said ye had!” he cried. “Did I say ye had, you rum-peddling
lubber?”

