 his dinner.
Then it was that the landlord suddenly rose from his chair, and began
anxiously to hobble about the kitchen. Just as Joseph had put the bread
and cheese in his pocket, and was going out of the door, the landlord
stayed him.

“Joseph,” he said, hoarsely, “give me back again the paper I have writ,
and go and unsaddle the tit. We will let this matter bide a bit; I must
think upon it.”

He had his fourth glass of hot rum-and-water to aid him to do so. He
meditated upon the grave matter until his head was ready to split. He
was taken with a vacillation that he had never experienced before.
His natural instincts were all for betraying the King. There lay his
pecuniary advantage, and even his personal safety. Should it become
known that he had harboured the man, knowing him to be the King, he was
as good as dead. A hundred times he arrived at that plain, inevitable
conclusion; yet a hundred times, at the very moment he was about to
act, his resolution weakened, and then appeared to snap. Some strange
tremor would arise in the remotest recesses of his brain.

The landlord did not know what name to put to it. Conscience it was
not. He knew himself too intimately ever to bring such an accusation
against the power of his understanding. Pity it was not. Fear it was
not. It might be superstition, yet he hardly thought so. It was the
oddest thing in life, and not the least disconcerting. It was his plain
duty to himself to sell the King, and yet a vague scruple he was unable
to define had the power to restrain him.

He reasoned with himself; he fought with himself. It was too monstrous
that a chance which could never occur again could be allowed to slip
by. Long ago had he made up his mind what to do in the case of the
King’s coming to his inn. And here was the King upstairs; and here was
he going over the well-trodden ground again, reviewing all his settled
conclusions, when every minute was of the first importance. Any moment
the King might turn his back on the “Sea Rover” forever. Yes, he would
cast out the qualm that was debasing his mind. It was sapping all its
vigorous faculties. But try as he might, he could not do so. It was
ingrained in the very marrow of his brain.

Minute by minute his chances were ticking away. Had he only had the
strength of purpose to permit Joseph to start on his errand, he would
have been halfway there by now! The malady that was besetting him
had never come upon him before. It was the most singular he had ever
experienced, or even heard of. It had already caused him to act in a
manner for him unparalleled. To keep Joseph back for no cause whatever
was, the poor landlord 