n window frame. Already rotten with
decay, it yielded readily to the silent deftness that was brought to
bear upon it.

There was soon a hole big enough for Gamaliel’s ear. At once he could
detect the gasps and low groans of the man in the bed. And he heard
the woman say, in her soft low tones that thrilled to the heart like
music:

“We can delay no longer, mine own; it must be done. Canst thou not
trust me?”

The man clung to her outstretched hand, and drew his head away from
her, like a child that is shy, farther back into the pillows. His
pale lips were seen to move, but any words they framed the landlord
could not hear. Thereafter for a time he lay with closed eyes, pallid
and helpless, whilst the woman knelt down by his side and buried her
beautiful head in the coverlet of the bed.

Presently she rose as one quickened by a sudden resolution. Tears she
had not, but her eyes were filled with an anguish deeper even than
the man’s. She crossed the room to where a broad settle stood with
a tumbled heap of clothing upon it. The landlord observed, with a
desperate dismay, that two cocked pistols lay there, whilst beside
them was a case of embroidered leather. The lady opened this, and drew
therefrom a dagger with a delicate point.

Concealing this in her hand, perchance that the man might not see it,
she approached the bed again. The landlord felt his limbs totter and
begin to fail him, whilst his straining eyes seemed inclined to start
from his head. What, in the name of the fiend, was the woman about to
do?

The man in the bed turned his eyes up to her; they had the look of a
wounded animal.

“Can it not stay?” he said, and his hoarse tone penetrated to the
listener’s ears. “It can make no difference now; the game is played.”

A sudden rush of tears appeared in the eyes of the woman; but the
masterful quivering of her lips said clearly that she refused to admit
them to be there.

“Another day of this,” she said, “and all is over. Our only chance is
to take it out before another hour goes by.”

“Ay, and if you cut it out,” the sufferer gasped, “I am done with if
ever man was.”

“Nay, child; I will not have you say that,” she said, caressing his
face with her unoccupied hand. The sweet imperious sorrow of her tone
touched even the listener at the window, who, after all, was not a man
of stone.

Again the sufferer turned his face up to the woman and regarded her
with the same dumb, dog-like look. She averted her gaze suddenly, as
though she had not the fortitude to look at him.

“Canst thou not trust me?” she said again. “I will be, oh! so gentle.
And we dare not 