f colour measurement, it appears to be deficient in several respects.
To take one point. We have seen that when blue and yellow are mixed
together to make white the sum of the luminosities of the two colours
separately is equal to the luminosity of the white produced. According
to the Hering theory, the yellow colour contains a certain amount
of the white-black sensation besides the yellow sensation, as does
also the blue colour besides the blue sensation. The theory tells us
that when white is produced by the mixture, the blue sensation undoes
the work that the yellow sensation has done, and the white sensation
is alone left behind. If this be the case, the sum of the separate
luminosities cannot be the same as that of the white produced, but
should be greater. The theory also has to be strained sometimes to make
it fit in with other observed facts. Take, for instance, the case of
persons who are called red-blind and green-blind on the Young theory.
We are told by the Hering theory that both are red-green-blind--that
is, blind to both green and red, and only see blue and yellow--and that
the only difference between them is that the former has his spectrum
slightly shortened at the red end, the maxima of the yellow-blue
sensations being shifted a little further towards the violet end of the
spectrum. The natural question to ask is: Why this shift occurs? Surely
it is more rational to adopt a theory which does not require such a
supposition? If the sensitive matter acted upon by the yellow-blue
rays be always of the same chemical composition, the shift cannot
occur. It might, perhaps, be allowed that one shift was practicable,
but, unfortunately, the shifts must become numerous when the cases
of partial colour blindness are to be accounted for, and this would
necessitate a constantly varying chemical composition of this matter,
and of that acted upon by the red-green rays.

Again, in the extinction of the spectrum, the red and the green
sensations in quantities to neutralize one another should be
extinguished nearly together, even allowing for what physiologists
tell us is the case, that the breaking down, or dissimulation, of cell
tissue continues longer than its building up, but we find a large
difference between the two. As already indicated, the luminosity curve
of the feeble spectrum favours the theory of Hering being that here
we only have the white-black sensation, and naturally the persistency
curves must be scored in its favour. But the cases of B. C. and M.,
it seems to me, cannot be explained by the theory without any undue
straining or assumptions. If we try and fit the cases of colour
blindness due to tobacco scotoma to the theory, we find that in many
cases yellow is not recognised, though blue is invariably. If the blue
be active, the yellow should also be so.

And here I may remark that it has been assumed that the two classes
of colour blindness are due to different causes. A question to ask
ourselves is whether all colour blindness may not have been caused
or