h apertures which can be opened or closed whilst rotating, is
placed, and the illumination of either beam can be altered at will. To
obtain a large spectrum on the screen E, all that is necessary is to
interpose a lens of fairly short focus in front of L₄, when a spectrum
of great purity and brightness can be formed.

If it be required to measure the width of the slits S₂ (which we shall
see further on is often necessary), a small lens of short focal length
placed behind L₄ and near the slit will cast a magnified image on E,
and by means of a scale placed there, the widths of each slit, if there
are more than one, can be read off on the scale by bringing them
successively into the same colour.

[Illustration: FIG. 5.]

Originally the comparison light was a candle, and it answered its
purpose fairly well, and for obtaining absolute measures is convenient
at the present time. Fig. 5 will show its arrangement, but as both the
candle and the electric light may vary independently of each other, it
will be seen that for merely the comparison of the different spectrum
colours, the previous arrangement is the better. In both cases the two
beams--the direct and the comparison--may be made to cast shadows
by placing a rod in their path, the shadow cast by one light is then
illuminated by the other light. By moving the rod towards or from the
screen the shadows can be brought side by side.

With this instrument it is easy to demonstrate that a mixed colour
may be mistaken for a simple colour of the spectrum. In a glass cell
with parallel sides is a solution of potassium bichromate, which,
to myself and probably most of you, has a beautiful orange colour.
The spectrum of white light is now on the screen, and if this orange
liquid is placed in the path of the white light before it reaches
the prisms, all the violet, blue, and most of the green is cut off,
leaving some green-yellow, orange and red only on the screen. That
these form the orange colour of the bichromate is readily shown by
removing the auxiliary lens. The spectrum, which has its focus at D, is
now recombined into a patch of light, which is at once seen to be the
colour of the solution.

[Illustration: FIG. 6.]

The colour of the bichromate is therefore a complex or mixed colour
according to our definition, for it is made up of a large number of
simple colours. What I desire to show, however, is that this complex
colour can be mistaken by the eye for a simple colour. First, let us
interpose the cell with the bichromate in the path of the _reflected_
beam, and throw the patch of light formed by it on a white surface A
(Fig. 6), alongside the patch of light B formed by the spectrum. Next
let us pass a single aperture (Fig. 7), which can be opened and closed
by a screw arrangement, through the spectrum. By careful movement we at
length come to an orange ray, which is spread out by the apparatus to
form a patch on B, that to the majority (and the word majority is used
with intention) of people exactly matches the colour