g. The night’s a stinger,
isn’t she? Lord! I wouldn’t like to be upon the sea.”

He fell to tracing weird shapes in the fire, and presently to dreams of
pleasant things. Suddenly he started from his doze, and called out to
his son:

“Joseph, d’ye hear me? Put them shutters up, and drop the bolt across.
There’ll be no comp’ny, so ye and Cicely can both get bed’ards. ’Tis a
night to freeze a dog.”

But even as the landlord spoke, his judgment was shown to be for once
at fault. For as his son opened the door and let in a few gusts of
frost and sea-fog, a man was found upon the threshold. He was the first
of all the unexpected visitors who came to the “Sea Rover” that wintry
evening; he made the first among those strange incidents that were so
soon to invade the peace of the landlord’s life.

The man from the night pushed Joseph aside, and lumbered into the
shadows of the room. He proved to be a seafaring man, in a dogskin
cap, with a pair of large earrings in his ears. Like the landlord, his
visage bore no superficial graces. The rime glistened on every inch
of him; and his tawny face, tanned by the winds and the seas, showed
fiercely from out of it. There was only one eye to his countenance,
but that shone on the landlord like a beacon; there was an oath on his
lips; and he came to the fire and put his hands to the blaze, with
an air of mastery that startled the drowsy host even more than his
appearance. This was hardly a friendly smuggler here in the ordinary
course of trade.

While the mariner melted the rime on his jerkin and thawed his frozen
limbs, Master Gamaliel Hooker shook up his wits and asked what his
pleasure was.

“A go o’ rum,” said the mariner, gruffly.

He drew up a settle opposite the landlord’s stool and flung himself
on to it. Then it was, in the full light of the candles, that the
weather-beaten ugliness of the man was revealed. Violence had closed
his right eye forever; a scar ran from his temple to his under-jaw;
and in contradistinction to the greed, the subtlety, and the cunning
of the host, there was a brutal insolence about the fellow that had
a whimsicality in it too, as is sometimes to be observed in those
indomitable characters who, conscious of their qualities, presume upon
them. Master Hooker, distrustful by nature as he was, had already
discovered this sinister audacity, and while that in itself was enough
to unsettle the peace of his mind, it was the fact that a naked knife
was gleaming under his visitor’s jerkin that most contributed to his
discomposure.

For a time the landlord and the mariner sat watching one another. On
the one side was a c