fine purple
and should answer our purpose. That these two media are what we require
can be readily demonstrated by placing them in front of the slit of
the collimator of our colour apparatus and throwing the spectrum on
the screen. The spectrum of white light is now on the screen, and
when we place the blue-green glass in front of the slit, we see that
the red is very nearly entirely extinguished, whilst if we substitute
for it the dyed collodionized glass the green is absent. Now, placing
the first glass in front of the lantern lens and switching on the
current, the wools are illuminated with the bluish-green light. The
green test-skein appears green, and we can proceed to make our matches,
picking out the colours which appear the same, but taking no heed as to
their lightness or darkness. A dozen skeins are now picked out, and I
think the audience will agree with me that the matches as viewed in the
green light are accurate. The glass is now withdrawn, and the ordinary
white light falls upon the skeins in my hand. They are a strangely
variegated lot as now seen; we have green shades, yellows, and browns,
and greys. Such a variety would tell me that I was colour deficient,
but would not be, perhaps, decisive as to what was the exact character
of the deficiency. For if the pink glass is placed in front of the
lantern you will find the same matches, with one or two exceptions,
might have been made. The blue-green glass is once more placed in the
beam, and this time I match the pink skein with the wools. A certain
number are picked out, and the audience will agree with me that the
matches are fair ones. When, however, the glass is withdrawn from the
light and we see what colours have been selected, we find that they
consist of pale blues, mauves, pinks of various shades, and cerise, and
violet. The red in the pink did not affect my eyes any more than would
it the red-blind. I am evidently then in this light red-blind, for if
the pink glass replaces the blue-green, the matches are impossible.
While this coloured light is illuminating the heap I will make matches
again. When made, the white light is again thrown on the selected
skeins, and this time we have bluish-green and neutral tint together
with pinks. The reason of this is evident, there is no green visible;
the bluish-green contains besides blue a certain amount of yellow,
which, in its turn, contains red, and the grey must be pink. To the
green-blind, for reasons already given, the blue-green looks white, as
does the pink, and therefore the two are matched together. The grey
is also degraded white to him, and therefore he also matches that
with them. The matches which the violet-blind would make can be well
exemplified by placing in the beam of light a yellow glass, or a glass
coated with collodion in which “brilliant yellow” has been dissolved.
By this plan, then, we can in some measure produce the effect of colour
blindness on ourselves, and very interesting it is to compare theory
with the results obtained in this mann