ce. And, oh, Lord! to
think the price o’ your blessed Majesty would buy that poor old man
an annuity for the remainder of his days. And, prithee, bring your
followers also, my liege--all in their nice new velvet breeches and
point-lace frilly-dillies. Gamaliel shall find a lodgment for them too,
good your Majesty, an he beds his own humble carcase with the cows.”

And so he dozed again. He dreamt that the King had come at last, and
was knocking at his door. He dreamt that the King was entering--a
most courtly, handsome gentleman, all graciousness and dignity; a
wonderful white feather in his hat, secured by a clasp of solid silver;
his sword-hilt wrought in gold and precious stones. It was all most
singularly real. How, although only a simple country innkeeper, he
had some little breeding, and strove to show it to the King; how he
received him on one knee, and did not speak a word until his Majesty
had spoken, as he heard they did at courts; and how the King said,
“Rise, my honest fellow--’tis not your congees that I need, but your
hospitality,” with just that smiling dignity that comes by nature to
a prince. What a gracious gentleman he was! Had he not the modest
self-effacement of good breeding, but withal the air and habit of
command? Did it not make his old blood thrill to hear his gentle, noble
tones? It was a dream; he knew it was indeed a dream, yet it was all
very real and dazzling and grand.

And then the good Gamaliel dreamt that a heavy bag of gold was jingling
in his hands. It was the fee the soldiers had paid him for the just
delivery of the person of this splendid prince. Ugh! and then there
was the sailor. He saw again the visage of that grim mariner, with the
fierce eye, the earrings, the knife, the scar--the whole concentrated
ugliness. And then there came the most vivid dream of all. The
sailor’s lips parted in a hiss of malevolence, the knife flashed from
his belt, and the old man felt it buried in his flesh. The knife seemed
to burn him like a fire, so that he awoke with half a curse and half a
scream.

Master Gamaliel did not marvel that his vision had such a terrible
reality. A live faggot had fallen from the fire and lay smouldering on
his foot. He shook it off with an oath of pain. But even in the act, a
diversion came to startle him out of his sufferings.

There came a sound in the night. He lifted his ears like a startled
fox. His nerves were in a plague of a twitter. For a man so old, he was
in a ridiculous taking. Once more he clapt his head to the shutter.
Yes; no; yes--horses again!

Could it be that the King was coming? Could he actually be coming in
his own person, in the d