nguor of the
King’s tone. He pushed the traditional demeanour of a monarch, which
had been in his family for generations, a point too far. Unconsciously,
he was sealing his own fate by the unnatural tranquillity of his
bearing. Slowly but surely his example was inciting the irresolute
landlord to a better possession of himself.

“I--I thought I heard the sound of horses upon the road a minute since,
as I sat by my kitchen fire,” said the landlord.

The frenzy was past. Gamaliel Hooker was beginning to speak again in
his natural person. He was gradually becoming once more the master of
his own mind.

Lady Farnham ran to the window. She pressed her ear upon it. Not a
sound fell within the chamber; but all breathed heavily in an agony of
listening. There was only the never-ceasing voice of the breakers,
beating against the wind and rocks.

“I only hear the roar of the sea,” said the lady, a minute afterwards.

“Plainly you were mistaken, landlord,” said the King, impassively. “But
the great distress your fancies put you in was highly commendable to
you. Your fears are groundless; but the new proofs they have furnished
of your fidelity and good feeling towards us shall certainly not be
forgotten. Landlord, we thank you.”

The landlord bent his white face. He had so much recovered himself,
that as he backed out of the King’s presence he was able to say:

“What hour do you desire your supper, Sire?”

The King took out his watch and glanced at it.

“It is now ten minutes after eight of the clock,” he said to Lady
Farnham. “Your friends are coming for my lord at half-past nine. I
think it will be well, dear lady, if we all sup here together in this
chamber at nine o’clock. We shall require a good meal, methinks; for
many arduous passages may be before us all.”

“At nine o’clock then, Sire,” said the landlord, “it shall be laid in
this chamber for three persons.”

The landlord closed the door and got himself below. His first action
was to regulate the clock. Ten minutes past eight: the hour was at
hand. The landlord stood in the middle of the kitchen listening; there
was still only the sound of the sea. Then he heard the cry of a wild
bird in the wintry night. But still the noise of horses came not.

Now that the frenzy of his madness was past, the landlord, in the
reaction of it, felt that he had better control of himself. It was
probably because his senses were numbed a little; the paralysis that
had fallen upon them that morning when the King had first revealed
his presence was coming upon them again. He was conscious of the
same strange stupor creeping through his veins;