ul of the conditions under which we
experiment. This can be shown by a very simple experiment. I will make
a match on B with the white light, which is thrown on the surface A
(Fig. 6), by mixing the red, green, and violet that pass through the
three adjustable apertures or slits already described. The apertures
are altered till the match appears to myself perfect. From an appeal
made to those of the audience who are at least 25 feet away from the
patches of light, as to the correctness of the match, I gather that
the match is to them imperfect. The mixed colours appear to them to
give a pinkish white. The reason of this defect in the match is due
to the fact that, as the lecturer is viewing the two square patches
of 2 in. side from a distance of 2 ft. 6 in., their images on his
retina extend beyond the boundary of the yellow spot, whilst the
audience receives the whole of the image on that portion of the retina
which is completely covered by it. To the lecturer only part of the
blue and green is absorbed by the yellow spot, and the part of the
retina outside it on which the image falls receives and records the
full intensity of these colours. To the audience the full amount of
absorption takes place, with the result that the patch of mixed colours
must appear too red when it is correct to the lecturer. In this case
habit makes the eye take an average of the different intensities which
must exist at the various parts of the image. We can, however, cause
a perfect agreement between all parties if the experimenter views the
surfaces in a mirror placed some 12 feet away and then makes the match,
for he is viewing the patches from what is practically a distance of
24 feet. If after making the match without the aid of the mirror the
lecturer’s eyes are directed a little to one side of the illuminated
surfaces, a match will no longer exist; the mixed colour, which is
to the audience pinkish, will now appear a bluish green to him. The
reason for this alteration in hue is that the whole of the images falls
outside the yellow spot.

It will now be quite apparent that we must discount any assertion in
regard to colour matches, unless we are told the distance of the eye
from the surface on which the match is made, together with the size
of that surface. This yellow spot is often provokingly tiresome in the
study of colour mixtures, and one might almost be justified in doubting
whether any _absolutely_ exact matches can ever be vouched for, owing
to the important region of the retina which it occupies.

The fatigue of the retina to colour after it has been presented to
the eye for any length of time is a difficulty, but in a less degree.
That the retina does experience fatigue can be shown by a very simple
experiment. The lecture theatre is now illuminated by the incandescent
light, and if we throw an image of the bright carbon points of the
electric arc light on the screen and steadily fix the eyes on the
image of the white-hot crater for some (say) twenty seconds, and
then we suddenly 