ust be carried out quickly
and without concentrated thought, for if an observer stops to _think_,
a fancied equality of brightness may exist, which other properly
carried out observations will show to be inexact. Now, instead of
using two colours, we can throw on a white surface a white patch from
the reflected beam, and a patch of the colour coming through the slit
alongside and touching it. The white is evidently the brighter, and so
the sectors are placed in this beam. The luminosity of (say) a red ray
is first measured, and the white is found to require a certain sector
aperture to secure a balance in brightness. We then place another
spectrum colour in the place of the first, and measure off in degrees
the brightness of this colour in terms of white light, and we proceed
similarly for the others. Now how are we to prove that the measures
for luminosity of the different colours are correct? Let us place three
slits in the spectrum, and by altering the aperture of the slits make
a mixture of the three rays so as to form white. The intensity of this
white we can match with the white of the reflected beam. We can then
measure the brightness (luminosity) of the three colours separately,
and if our measures are correct there is _primâ facie_ reason to
suppose that they will together make up the brightness of the white.
Without going through this experiment it may at once be stated that the
reasoning is correct, for within the limits of error of observation
they do so. Having established this proposition, we can next compare
_inter se_, the brightness of any or all of the rays of the spectrum by
a preliminary comparison with the reflected beam of white light. As in
the colour patch apparatus all colours and principal dark lines of the
solar spectrum are known by reference to a scale, in making a graphic
representation of the results, we first of all plot on paper a scale
of equal parts, and at the scale number where a reading is made, the
aperture of the sectors in degrees is set up. Thus, suppose with red
light the scale number which marked the position of the slit was 59,
and the aperture 10°, we should set up at that scale number on the
paper a height of 10 on any empyric scale. If in the green at scale
No. 38 the sectors had to be closed to 7°, we should set up 7 at that
number on the scale.

When observations have been made at numerous places in the spectrum,
the tops of these ordinates, as they are called, should be joined, and
we then get the observed curve of luminosity for the whole spectrum.
For convenience’ sake we make the highest point 100, and reduce the
other ordinates in proportion. For some purposes it may be advantageous
to give the luminosity curve in terms of a scale of wave-lengths. For
our purpose, however, it is in general sufficient to use the scale of
the instrument.

[Illustration: FIG. 19.]

Now, if we test the vision of the various types of colour blind by
this plan, we should expect to get luminosities at different parts of
the spectrum which 