final phrase with his mouth close to
Joseph’s ear.

“And I’m thinking,” he continued, “that even if they don’t happen to be
royalty, they may requite us. Ye can lay to it, they’ve got some blunt
about ’em, somewhere. Now, Joseph, I’m going to find out who they are.”

“And if they are proscribed?” said Joseph, breathlessly.

The landlord put his hand against his mouth and said, with an eager
secrecy:

“If they are proscribed, I shall first suck ’em dry like an egg, d’ye
see, and then I shall break ’em like the empty shell.”

The son shuddered. He had no opinion in these things one way or
another, but his was not the rapacity that could grind its heel into
the face of a dying man.

All that day the landlord’s doubts were unresolved. He was not once
allowed within the chamber. Despite his frequent approaches with food
and questions as pretexts for the satisfaction of his curiosity, the
entrance was ever sedulously kept. True, he would be greeted at once
by the lady’s courteous appearance, but every time her form would
intervene between him and the interior of the room; and there would
always be her chin and mouth shot out in a long-drawn “Hush!” and
worlds of entreaty in her eyes.

The evening found the landlord no nearer to the truth. He was growing
desperate. It was imperative that he should know something of his
guests.

Three times that day had he asked the lady for her name and that of her
companion, and three times had he been put off by the tender tact that
only a woman has. Again he sat before the fire with the hot liquor,
and the candles, and the hissing logs about him, with the door and
shutters fast against the wintry night. He sat coiled in thought. There
were little knots of it upon his brow; it crouched and ruminated in his
eyes; it crept round his wizened lips; his very hands were clenched
upon it.

He had weighed every pro and con in his cunning heart. If it were the
King who lay upstairs, it would be to his advantage to deliver him up
to his enemies at once. He could afford to do so, for there was a great
reward. Besides, as was known to all the world, delays were dangerous,
especially in the case of kings. Assuming that they honoured your
abode, were they not here to-day and gone to-morrow? And should their
coming be by night, in stealth, was not their going likely to be also
of that manner? Assuming this mysterious young man to be the King, this
“incurable disease” of his was doubtless a blind, intended to mask his
real intentions. Any morning might find him flown. Yes; if this young
man really was the King, he must deliver him up immediately.

If h