th a Scriptural directness. But the host
was thoughtful to the last degree. He caused his son to bear hot meal
and water to the rime-clad horses, while the servant-maid took mulled
sack and spiced October to their riders. And when at last they went
forth again to scour the bitter night for a hunted solitary, mine host
stood bareheaded by his door waving a candle to them until they passed
from sight into the blackness of the rocks. Thereon the good Gamaliel,
mirror of hospitality, soul of ancient cheer, closed his portals with
a crash, slipped bolt and chain across, and returned to his wassail.
For a whole minute he puckered his wits with some tough arithmetic, and
then said to his son:

“I reckon, Joseph, I’m nineteen shillings and fivepence out on this
visit up to now. But I’m not complaining; for I rather think, my son,
since things are as they are, we shall have that money back before the
week’s spent, with maybe a few groats emolument over and above.”

The landlord chuckled at the thought, and began to build his castles.
Soon his son and the servant-maid went to their repose; but Gamaliel
sat for long enough about the fire, staring into its ever-changing
caverns and abysses--now sipping his liquor, now lost in meditation,
now revolving choice schemes in his mind. Indeed, so happy was he in
these circumstances, that it seemed better far to pass the night
before the cheerful hearth in the society of his cups than with
ice-cold sheets about him, and rats scuttling behind the wainscot of
his chamber.

Thus he sat for many an hour, thinking and dozing and dreaming. He was
wonderfully at peace to-night with the world and his own soul. True, he
occasionally saw the sinister eye of the mariner gleaming out of the
bars; once, too, he saw his knife flash through the shadows when the
candles had waned into gloom. But even these chimeras had not the power
to quell the ineffable satisfaction that was gradually invading the
old man’s heart. A vista of delightful possibilities had been revealed
by recent history; there was money to be made. Should good fortune
preside over his affairs, he had a chance to earn more in a week by
dabbling in political matters than he would in a lifetime by regular,
straightforward trade.

“Not so straightforward neither,” he confided to his cup. “Oh, ye’re
a cunning one, Gamaliel, my son! Now, Master Charles Stuart, King o’
Scotland, please to knock upon my door. I am sure your Highness will
be more than welcome. There’s a cheerful hearth awaiting for you--ay,
and a tun o’ liquor for your royal lips. I am sure, my liege, the good
Gamaliel will entertain you as befits a prin