wet cloak and gloves, and then knelt
down before him to chafe his cold hands with her own even colder, and
talked to him as she did so in little soothing affectionate phrases, as
a mother might to a child.

Meantime the landlord was busy indeed. He hobbled about the kitchen
with his gout as though the hour was three at noon instead of three
of the night--now for a cup, now for a spoon, now for a stoup of the
hissing liquor, steaming and vapouring in the bowl. Mine host had
brewed a posset, strong, hot, searching, fit for a prince! Ha! and who
knew that royal lips were not about to imbibe it. The thought was ever
present in Master Hooker’s heart. Be very sure his eye was never an
instant from his guests.

The lady, it is true, still wore her vizard, thereby balking his
curiosity in the main particular; in her tender solicitude for her
lord, she had forgot to doff her dripping cloak; she was bedraggled,
weary, unkempt, chilled to the blood; but were she presently to be
revealed a princess, the shrewd Gamaliel would be able to say without
impropriety that from the first he had guessed so much. He knew high
breeding when he saw it; he flattered himself that naught could conceal
it from him. He had not seen a feature, a jewel; she had hardly given
him three words; his knowledge of her attire was confined to a hood,
a riding-cloak, and a mask; but there it was, the hallmark, the
indescribable strange grace that misfortune could not tarnish, nor
distresses hide.

As for the man, her husband with the querulous eyes and the countenance
twisted with pain, there was not a button of his coat that the landlord
had not already by heart. A most handsome fellow, in the very heyday
of his youth. Yet he looked so pale and worn, that it seemed as if
the first puff of wind might extinguish the life of him, as it would
a candle-flame. He had a singular delicacy of feature, designed for
sweetness and urbanity. But his face was robbed of something of its
peculiar beauty by an expression of peevish arrogance, aggravated
perhaps by his imminent condition, but probably sufficient at any time
to mar a countenance wonderfully fair. A high spirit seemed to preside
behind it, a chafing, impatient, overleaping spirit, that hated being
harnessed to a maimed body. And below the resentful anguish of the
young man’s face was a permanent look of weariness and disillusion that
one might expect to see in that of a person who had drunk the cup of
life to the very dregs until his lips revolted from its bitterness. Yet
the landlord, whose scrutiny missed not a detail, could see that he
was of the quality of his veiled companion. He was one accustomed to
t