y be even greater than when the wave period
is absolutely the same as one of them. For in the last case a maximum
effect may be produced on one apparatus, and the effects on the other
two may be insignificant; whilst in the first case the effects on two
of them may be so large that their combined effects may have a larger
value.

[Illustration: FIG. 12.]

The following diagram (Fig. 12), made on the principle of Lissajou’s
figures, shows graphically the motion of the pendulum. The pendulum,
with a pen attached, was started by an independent pendulum, which had
a different period, and the amplitude of the former registered itself
on paper which moved by clockwork round the axis of suspension. As
the two pendulums had different periods, the amplitude, as shown by
the traces made, first increased and then diminished till there was
no motion, and then started again. The trace is very instructive, and
deserves attention. It will be noticed that the amplitude, or length
of swing, increased rapidly at first, and then very gradually attained
a maximum. Having attained this maximum, the amplitude diminished very
slowly for some time, and finally came rather rapidly to zero, and the
pendulum for an instant was at rest.

[Illustration: FIG. 13.

The top figure is the red sensation on the Young theory; the middle is
the green sensation, and the lowest the violet or blue sensation.]

With the notion in our minds that the perceiving apparatus might
act in the way that the pendulum acts, we naturally apply it to the
theories which early investigators on colour vision propounded. Thomas
Young, whose name has already been mentioned, had propounded a theory
of vision, which depended on the existence of only three colour
sensations, and Von Helmholtz adopted it and explained the action of
the three sensations in reference to the spectrum as shown in the
diagram. These figures do not pretend to be absolute measures of the
sensations, but only of the form which they might take (Fig. 13).
The height of the curve at each part of the spectrum is supposed to
represent the stimulation given to each apparatus by the different
colours. Looking at the figures we see that each sensation has a
place of maximum stimulation, and that the stimulation falls off more
or less rapidly on each side of this maximum. It will, however, be
noticed that whilst the green sensation takes very much the form of the
pendulum amplitudes (Fig. 12) between its periods of rest, the other
two differ from it. In the case of the red sensation, the stimulation
falls very rapidly in the red as it reaches the limit of visibility of
the spectrum, and in that of the blue sensation the steep descent is
towards the extreme violet. When the three sensation theory is examined
in the light of the careful measurements that have been made, the
results tell us that these diagrams can only be taken as suggestive.




CHAPTER IV.


An independent investigator of this subject was Clerk Maxwell, who
experimented with a “colour-box”