 to the robbing him of five
minutes of his precious sleep. We Stuarts owe too much to him and his
ever to take wantonly from one of his name that which we can never
give back again. His grandfather, his father, and himself, have they
not given their all--their lands, their blood, nay, their lives--for
our poor father’s cause and our own? I know not what fidelity it is in
a family that they should from generation to generation, from father
to son, lavish their possessions on unfortunate people who can never
hope, in any adequate degree, to requite them.”

Charles, as he spoke, seemed to warm slowly into a rhapsody of
sentiment. Tears even sprang out of his eyes, his lips quivered,
and for the moment he appeared wholly overcome by an emotion of
inexpressible regret and tenderness. In the bearer of that name it
seemed an exquisitely natural manifestation. The woman, whose life
had been passed in the shadow of his ineffably lamentable history,
felt herself to be succumbing to this outburst from the lips of the
most unfortunate Prince since the world began. The dire circumstances
in which this unhappy young King was lying; his voice; his bearing;
the mean disguise to which he must have recourse because the hand of
every man was against him--all this, in conjunction with the outburst
of feeling he now displayed, was too much for the feminine witness of
it. Every night she prayed for his safety; in her dreams she saw his
face; to her he was the one hero of romance, the most exquisitely noble
and tender figure in the whole woman’s world of the ideal. He was the
prince out of the fairybook; and when she saw him thus with the tears
in his eyes, and a divine tremor in his tones, her heart overflowed.

She looked at the King; she looked at him to bestow upon him the mute
consolation of her tender heart. The tears were in her own eyes too;
her own lips quivered. The King, half-smiling through the tears that
were still coursing down his cheeks, bent towards her as if overcome by
such an infinite compassion. The look of sad thanks he gave her seemed
to send all the blood wild in her brain; the King’s eyes seemed to set
her soul on fire. She was not conscious that he had gathered her in his
arms, and that her breast was drawn against his own; indeed, of only
one thing had she consciousness, and that with the vague excitement of
the senses a dream or a delirium induces. It was, that the King’s lips
were pressed in a fierce madness against her own.

With a little cry, she thrust him from her and burst out of his arms.
Involuntarily her frightened eyes fell on the sleeper in the bed.
He slept no more. He lay with his eyes riveted