ogical Optics,” has calculated, from
Kœnig’s observations, that no one of the three sensations is singly
stimulated by any colour, even at the extreme ends of the spectrum, and
he makes the three fundamental sensations vary considerably from those
given in these pages. Every colour he states is considerably mixed with
white light. The calculations by which he arrived at this conclusion
are of a complicated nature, and I think if he had had besides the
colour equations of Kœnig, the luminosities and the extinction measures
before him, there might have been a modification of his views, for
these last give evidence to the contrary.

There is a possible modification of the Young theory which would
account for a good many of the phenomena that are unaccounted for by
it in its present form, though it may raise new difficulties in the
minds of some. Let us suppose that each of the three sensations were
compounded of fundamental _light and of colour_ in fixed and definite
proportions, and not in the same proportion in each; and further that
the apparatus in the eye which was responsible for each sensation
had two functions, one of which was to respond to the fundamental
light sensation and the other to the colour. One essential difference
between this modification of the Young theory and that of Hering
is that, whilst in the latter the white sensation is a sensation
_distinct from the colour sensations_, in the former it is a _definite
part_ of them. The fact that the sensation of colour is lost before
the sensation of light is one of the greatest significance, and any
theory to be accepted must offer a reasonable explanation of it. If
the modification suggested be made, it accounts for the existence
of this residuum of light equally as well as Hering’s theory, and
without its drawback. It is not hard to imagine the apparatus which
gives rise to two sensations, on the assumption of different kinds of
atomic motion, induced by the ether motion, or at least three kinds are
possible. When extinction of _colour_ is made, the ether vibrations
would have sufficient energy to induce but one kind of motion; and
when all _light_ was extinguished from the same ray, they would not
be capable of inducing any sensible motion whatever. In the case of
Miss W., who saw all colours as white, it might be that disease had
entirely prevented the first kind of motion in all three sensations,
and that in P. and Q. the red and green sensations were absent or
paralysed in their entirety, whilst the blue sensation was left in full
operation. In B. C. the blue and red sensations would be similarly
absent, leaving the green sensation unchanged. The coincidence of
their persistency and luminosity curves would then indicate that
the proportions of fundamental light and colour remained the same
throughout. Other examples and considerations seem to indicate that
the proportion of colour to fundamental light is greatest in the red
sensation, next in the green, and least in the blue. This would explain
why wi