e turned away from him with the same tremor of disgust as one
turns away from a venomous reptile. Even to her compassion there was a
limit.

“Come, my own,” she said. “It is folly in us to lose a precious moment.
I wonder what hath happened to the poor King. God be with him, poor
lad, this night!”

“He should make good his escape,” said Lord Farnham. “He hath a horse
and a full ten minutes start of his foes.”

Leaning on the arm of his wife he passed slowly out of the door, into
the night and his freedom. The landlord still leant against the wall:
not a word did he speak; not a finger did he lift to stay the departing
guests.

Diggory Fargus tarried behind an instant to speak a word in the
landlord’s ear.

“Mate,” said he, thrusting his one eye into the quivering face of the
landlord, “I said, if ye played me false I would twist your head off
your body with these two hands. But I shall leave it to others, d’ye
see. I shall kind o’ leave it to my deppities. They’ll make a cleaner
job of it than me. They’ll do it more formal and more lawyerlike.
Besides, I have hardly the time to do it now. But let me tell ye,
mate, as one man to another, that when next I am around this coast, I
shall make a call at this old grog shop, and if I find that them there
soldiers has not done their dooty by you, ye can lay to it as Diggory
Fargus is a christened man he’ll keep his word. A pleasant evenin’ to
you, mate.”

The sailor spat vehemently upon the kitchen floor, and lurched out into
the darkness in the wake of his companions.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  XVII

  _The Landlord_]


Gamaliel closed the door upon the last of his visitors. Gradually
their slow footsteps receded into the roar of the sea. He listened,
and fancied he could hear them long after he had ceased to do so.
Insensibly his mind lingered on their sound, for when they should die
away he knew that his life was at an end.

As one who has suffered the tortures and paroxysms of a disease may
lose his agonies as soon as it develops mortal symptoms, so the
landlord, possessed with the knowledge that his own life was the price
he must pay for his weakness, sat down in his chair by the fire with a
clear mind. There was no longer any need for him to torment himself. He
foresaw the issue as plainly as the man in the cart when he looks upon
the scaffold.

He had lost all. Events had been too great for his second-rate
character. They had called for a strong man--a man of courage, of
indomitable spirit and tenacity of purpose--to grapple with them.
For such a one there had been a fortune. The landlord, self-deceived
becaus