we were enabled to make
him match accurately a red, a green, and a blue disc separately with
mixtures of black and white.

The following are the equations:--

  360 red   = 315 black + 45 white.
  360 green = 258 black + 102 white.
  360 blue  = 305 black + 55 white.

With these proportions he emphatically stated that all were good blues,
and that the inner disc and outer ring were identical in brightness and
in colour.

It may be remarked that this is a case of congenital colour blindness,
and that there is reason to believe that some of his ancestors were
colour blind.

Before using the discs an attempt was made to ascertain the luminosity
of the spectrum as it appeared to him. His readings, however, were so
erratic that nothing could be made out from these first observations,
except to fix the place of maximum luminosity, the terms “pale” and
“dirty” puzzling us as to their real meanings. After the experience
with the discs we had a clue as to what he wished to express by pale or
dirty blue, which only meant that the colour or white was too bright,
and on making a second attempt he matched the luminosities of the two
shadows as easily as did P. and Q., the other cases of monochromatic
vision. The method adopted was to diminish the white light illuminating
one shadow to the point at which he pronounced it a good blue, when
a slight alteration in the intensity was always sufficient to secure
to his eye equality of luminosity between it and the coloured shadow
without his perceiving any alteration in the saturation.

[Illustration: FIG. 34.

B. C.’s Luminosity and Extinction Curves.]

The curve of luminosity, Fig. 34, is a very remarkable one, being
different in character to that of P. and Q., the maximum being well on
the D side of E. A great falling off in the luminosity when compared
with that measured by the normal eye will be noticed both in the
blue and in the red. (For measures see page 225.) The evidence was
therefore presumptive that B. C.’s colour sensation was neither red nor
blue, but probably a green.

The next test was made to throw light on this point. He made
observations of the extinction of the different parts of the spectrum.
His observations were very fair, except on the violet side of F, where
they became slightly erratic, but by requesting him to use all parts
of his retina to obtain the last glimpse of light, a very concordant
curve resulted, as shown in Fig. 34. Some of his observations at this
part were evidently made with the centre of the retina, for they gave
readings which, when the “persistency” curve was calculated, and
these observations treated as part of the extinction, agreed with the
luminosity curve. We may, therefore, conclude that B. C. has a region
in the retina in which there is an absorbing medium corresponding to
the yellow spot of the normal eyed. This is diagrammatically shown in
Fig. 34 by the difference in height of ordinates in the persistency
(dotted) and the luminosity curves. On the red side of th