came they would most certainly take away the wounded cavalier as
well as the King. And Gamaliel had not yet had time to deprive him
and his wife of their money and jewels. That was indeed a fly in the
ointment. In a sense, it considerably lessened the price upon the head
of the King.

Still, it would be folly to risk losing the King’s price for the sake
of a sum paltry by comparison. He would dearly like to grasp every
penny. It was his nature; but in attempting to do so, he must not throw
away the substance for the shadow. With a sudden access of resolution
he called for his son.

“Joseph,” he said, in his lowest tone, “do you saddle the tit this
minute. I want you to ride right away to Woolden Magna, and ask for
Captain Culpeper at Master Parkin’s farm. You know it well. ’Tis on
the top of Woolden Hill, overlooking the sea. And when you see Captain
Culpeper, you are to whisper in his private ear: ‘The King, Charles
Stuart, is at the “Sea Rover”; do you come at once.’”

Joseph looked a little bewildered.

“The King!” he said, excitedly.

“Hush, hush, thou fool!” said the nervous Gamaliel. “If we are
overheard, we are undone.”

Turning round in his anxiety, he became aware that although Cicely the
serving-maid was ostensibly cleaning the warming-pan, she was really
listening with all her ears.

“My wench,” said her master, sharply, “do you go into the cellar and
broach that small barrel of October. I told ye to do so yesterday.”

When Cicely had disappeared to do his bidding, Gamaliel continued his
instructions.

“Now, Joseph,” he said, in the same eager whisper as before, “you
understand. You will do all this quickly and secretly, and your
father’s fortune is made. But, Joseph, I think instead o’ saying to
Captain Culpeper, ‘The King is at the “Sea Rover,”’ you had better say:
‘My father, Master Gamaliel Hooker, hath sent me to tell you that the
King is at the “Sea Rover.”’ The Captain must understand that I sent
ye, Joseph. But perhaps it would be better that I writ this information
down on a piece of paper, and signed my name to it. Nobody can then
take the credit of it from me.”

With this cunning end in view, he caused Joseph to procure him the
materials for writing. He thereupon committed the message to paper
with much anxious care and many laborious twistings of the mouth.
At last it was written and sanded, signed and sealed, and delivered
into Joseph’s hand. Five minutes afterwards Joseph’s nag stood at the
door, and Joseph himself was superintending Cicely whilst she put up
for him a hunch of bread and cheese to bear with him for