 promoting
constructive changes (changes of assimilation), others promoting
destructive changes (changes of dissimilation); and on the other hand,
that the different changes in the visual substance may give rise to
different sensations.

“We may, for instance, suppose that there exists in the retina a
visual substance of such a kind that when rays of light of certain
wave-lengths--the longer ones, for instance, of the red side of
the spectrum--fall upon it, dissimilative changes are induced or
encouraged, while assimilative changes are similarly promoted by the
incidence of rays of other wave-lengths, the shorter ones of the blue
side. But it must be remembered that in dealing with sensations it
is difficult to determine what part of the apparatus causes them; we
may accordingly extend the above view to the whole visual apparatus,
central as well as peripheral, and suppose that when rays of a certain
wave-length fall upon the retina, they in some way or other, in some
part or other of the visual apparatus, induce or promote dissimilative
changes, and so give rise to sensations of a certain kind, while
rays of another wave-length similarly induce or promote assimilative
changes, and so give rise to a sensation of a different kind.

“The hypothesis of Hering applies this view to the six fundamental
sensations spoken of above, and supposes that each of the three pairs
is the outcome of a particular set of dissimilative and assimilative
changes. It supposes the existence of what we may call a red-green
visual substance of such a nature that so long as dissimilative and
assimilative changes are in equilibrium, we experience no sensation;
but when dissimilative changes are increased, we experience a sensation
of (fundamental) red, and when assimilative changes are increased, we
experience a sensation of (fundamental) green.

“A similar yellow-blue visual substance is supposed to furnish,
through dissimilative changes a yellow, through assimilative changes
a blue sensation; and a white-black visual substance similarly
provides for a dissimilative sensation of white and an assimilative
sensation of black. The two members of each pair are therefore not
only complementary but also antagonistic. Further, these substances
are supposed to be of such a kind that while the white-black substance
is influenced in the same way, though in different degrees, by rays
along the whole range of the spectrum, the two other substances
are differently influenced by rays of different wave-length. Thus,
in the part of the spectrum which we call red, rays promote great
dissimilative changes of the red-green substance with comparatively
slight effect on the yellow-blue substance; hence our sensation of red.

[Illustration: FIG. 17.]

“In that part of the spectrum which we call yellow, the rays effect
great dissimilative changes of the yellow-blue substance; but their
action on the red-green substance does not lead to an excess of
either dissimilation or assimilation, this substance being neutral