ld not
bear to hear the sounds of their arrival. He fell half fainting into
his chair. He covered his eyes; he buried his head in the cushions;
his lips moved in a wild, inarticulate prayer. But he could not efface
the things that were happening. The horsemen were pulling up under the
sign.




[Illustration:

  CHAPTER
  XIV

  _The Divinity that
  doth hedge a King_]


“Our landlord was right,” said the King.

Only too well could the people upstairs hear the sounds from the night
that were frightening the landlord out of his wits.

“Mother of Jesu, be our guide!” cried the poor lady. A crucifix was in
her hand. “Sire, whither canst thou flee?”

“It is too late for that, I fear, my dearest lady,” said the King.
“What we have anticipated for so many days hath come to pass.”

“No, Sire!” said the woman, wildly. “At all costs, you must get away.
Flee, Sire; flee anywhere! They must not, they shall not find you here!”

“They are already arrived,” said the King, still in the complete
possession of his composure. “They have ridden very fast; they are
dismounting beneath the window even now. Do you not hear their harsh,
loud voices? One can even catch the words they utter.”

All listened with wildly-beating hearts.

“See! that is the chamber,” they heard the loudest voice of all
exclaim, “with the light coming through the shutters. Now, do you watch
back and front; spread out all round the house. D’ye hear me? Do you
watch that window; ay, and do you watch the roof, too.”

The speaker was plainly the leader, and just as plainly was labouring
under a great excitement. The King smiled his charming, melancholy
smile.

“I would have you dry your tears, dear lady,” he said. “I think we can
all suffer this event with fortitude. It is hardly so terrible as it
seems.”

“Sire,” cried the woman, “you must not, you shall not be ta’en!”

“One man, and another one disabled and bedridden, cannot avail against
a multitude,” said the King. “Besides, violence should never be
resorted to in a lady’s presence, madam.”

The woman gazed distraught this way and that about the chamber. Again
and yet again she cried out that the King should not be taken. The King
laughed.

“There are but two places in which to hide, as I can see,” said he;
“and I do not think either of them would afford us much protection. One
is up the chimney; the other, under the bed.”

Already the clank of arms filled the kitchen below. Boots and spurs
rang on the stairs. They were coming up.

“They shall not enter!” cried the woman, with an almost childish
impotence