d boil the pot; and
he himself fussed so much about the details of the brew, that in
a surprisingly few minutes the soldier and his nine cold men were
entertained. The little man, under the benignant influences of the
warmth and liquor, became disposed for intercourse. With his back to
the fire, he communicated things that the landlord wanted mightily to
hear.

A battle had been fought by Worcester City between the arms of Oliver,
Protector, and Charles Stuart, King of Scots. The Lord, it seemed, had
vouchsafed “a crowning mercy” unto the former ones, to such a degree,
forsooth, that those of the latter had been beaten incontinently from
the field. And Charles Stuart was even now being hunted mile by mile
over the West Country; that almost every hour he was likely to be
ta’en; and that whosoever had that good fortune would have a goodly
recompense, so considerable a price there was upon his head.

“A considerable price is on his head!” cried the landlord, scalding
his mouth in his excitement, “and he is in these parts even now!”

“True i’ faith,” said the soldier, “or I’d be snug in Hounslow Camp. We
hold an information that he lies in hiding on this shore, and on some
night such as this he will try to make the coast of France. But it will
be a darkish evening when he goes, I fancy, there being so many of us
prick-ears along this beach, d’ye see.”

“Well, I reckon, friend,” Gamaliel said with deep emotion, “that if
Charles Stuart, king or no king, comes to the ‘Sea Rover,’ you can lay
to it he will not go off again so freely as he came. A considerable
reward, I think ye said, sir?”

“And while your mind’s upon it,” said the soldier, “look to the
proscribed. There’ll be lords and cavaliers, as well as kings, awaiting
a wind for France. We shall tarry on this shore until we hold the
Stuart; so if lace shirts and velvet breeches come your way, just you
keep them, Master, and send us word along the coast. I’ll answer for
it that you shan’t be a loser by it.”

Gamaliel Hooker might be said to drink these phrases, so agreeable were
they to his receptive ears. He had a particular talent for the devious
and the underhand. And the prospect of turning an unexpected penny, and
at the same time winning the approbation of the law, tickled his mind
so tenderly, that he could not repress a beam of pleasure that crept
out of his crafty eyes.

“Drain the bowl, good soldier; I will brew again!” he cried.

The soldier drained the bowl. Cheek by jowl, they sat together beside
the blaze. Outside the awaiting troopers stamped their feet, beat their
arms, and damned the cold wi