ld two of them to procure a
rope.

“You will find plenty in the stable,” said the landlord.

Several of the soldiers chuckled.

“Do you know for what purpose we require it, good Master Innkeeper?”
said Culpeper, laughingly.

“The signboard will suit your purpose best,” said the landlord.

“You oblige us vastly,” said the soldier.

The landlord astonished them vastly too. They had not looked for this
demeanour in one who was about to undergo the penalty of death. They
had never encountered such an indifference in the face of it before.

However, when the two men returned bearing a stout piece of hemp,
an evidence was furnished of the price at which the landlord’s
newly-acquired fortitude had been purchased. When his bloodshot eyes
fell on the rope, a cord appeared to snap in the middle of his brain;
his head revolved slowly on his neck; and he pitched heavily on to the
kitchen floor.

They turned him over on his back, but all attempts to restore the
landlord to sensibility failed. After a while he appeared to grow dimly
conscious of his surroundings; but he was bereft of speech, and he had
not the power to move. It mattered not what remedies they had recourse
to, the horrible, convulsed white face still had the vacancy and the
inanimation of death without the repose of it.

“’Tis a pity we could not hang the old rogue more prettily,” said
Captain Culpeper, when all their exertions had failed of their effect.
“For if ever a man did merit a hanging, here he lies. He hath played a
double game all through. But what he could have hoped to gain by it,
for the life of me I cannot see. He must have been a sanguine fellow to
think that he could run with the hare, and hunt with the dogs. He must
have known that he went in danger of being torn to pieces. But why he
should first betray the King, and then promote his escape, passes me
completely. A queer old rogue, this landlord. Now then, lift him up,
lads, and set him in the place he himself did choose.”

They placed the noose around the landlord’s neck and bore him out into
the shrewd air of the morning. It was still as dark as pitch; never a
star looked out of the sky; mercifully the moon had hidden her face;
and thus the body of the landlord was unregarded, as it swung in the
wintry darkness from the signboard of the “Sea Rover.”


THE END.




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOO