nformation he must acquire at all
costs: Was this young man Charles Stuart?

He had yet to view his visitors by the light of day. He conceived the
idea of bearing food to them with his own hands, particularly as now it
was nine o’clock of the morning, and they had evinced no disposition
to procure it for themselves. When the meat was ready, he took it
upstairs and tapped upon the chamber door. But if Master Hooker had
hoped to gain admission there, his disappointment must have proved
extreme; for at his knock the door was opened, and the lady met him on
the threshold. She stood unmasked at last, her eyes now shining in the
morning light. There was a finger on her lip.

“Hush, sir!” she whispered. “I prithee do not speak, and do not enter.
My husband sleeps, and he is in such case that I fear he may never wake
again.”

Her voice was wild and low with sorrow.

Speaking thus, she took the tray of meat from the landlord’s hand, and
she acted with such a quickness that the door was shut upon him ere he
could reply. He heard the key turn in the lock. So far he was foiled.
Plainly they had something to conceal, and just as plainly they did
not trust Gamaliel. Yet the old man went downstairs with positive
knowledge on a point that was not the least important. He had seen the
lady’s face. Her mask was off, and he had fed his cunning eyes on her
every feature. He was not by any means a young man, and he whimsically
thanked his stars that his blood was cool and sober.

What a creature! A woman formed for tenderness and passion. He had seen
them younger and more lyrical, handsomer, more brilliant, more prodigal
of smiles; for there was the matron in her shape, and he should take
her age for thirty-five. But she had the sort of face that Correggio
painted: large, steadfast eyes, gazing on the world and occasionally
mocking at it gently, as one who has sipped the cup of the poison of
experience, and who has had the native strength to accept the bitter
draught without being defiled--nay, rather fortified. A fair and
gracious lady, then, with a face sensitive and pure, grave with the
loveliness of knowledge; no milk-hearted nymph nor dimpled Hebe, but a
Helen at the zenith of her womanhood, who “moves a goddess and looks a
queen”; true child of her sex withal, one who could be an angel to her
friends and a devil to her enemies.

“Ha, I’ve seen her!” said Master Hooker to his son. “She’s a picter,
she is, Joseph, and belongs to the nobility. On that I’ll take my
Biblical! Wonderful fair hands she ’ave, white as surf; and harkee,
Joseph, diamonds a-shining on ’em.”

The landlord communicated this 