 has been mentioned, is stained with
a black pigment, fuscin, though in albinos it is absent. What its
particular use may be is still unknown, for its change by light is so
slow that it can scarcely be the cause of vision. In the outer parts of
the rods is, however, diffused a substance highly sensitive to light,
called the “visual purple,” from its colour, and a theory founded on
chemical action, produced by a change in this substance, has been
promulgated. Fascinating, however, as such a theory must be, it lacks
confirmation. The fact that the cones do not contain it, and that in
the fovea are cones alone, renders it difficult to reconcile the theory
with the fact that this part of the retina possesses, we are told, the
greatest acuteness of sensation as regards light and colour.

The eyes of most vertebrate animals, it may be remarked, have this
visual purple, but in those of the bat, owl, hen, and some others the
colouring matter seems to be absent. Visual purple is an interesting
substance, however, and as it is found in the eye it probably exercises
some useful function, though what that function may be is at present
unknown. That images of objects can be formed on the retina, owing to
the bleaching of this substance, has been proved by experiment. The
purple is first changed to a yellow colour, and then passes into white.
These “optograms,” as they are called, can be fixed in an excised eye
if the retina be detached, and then be treated with a weak solution of
alum.

[Illustration: FIG. 3.]

Many persons are not aware of the extent of the field of view which the
eye embraces. Vertically it takes in about 100°, whilst horizontally
it will take in some 145°, more or less. The field is smaller on the
nasal than on the temporal side. When both eyes are used, the combined
field of view is larger horizontally, being about 180°. The field of
view which is common to both eyes is roughly a circle of about 90°.
There is, however, a marked difference in the distinctness with which
objects are perceived in the different parts of field of view. On the
fovea centralis two dots placed so as to subtend an angle of 60″ will
be perceived as double. That is to say, if a piece of paper, on which
are two dots 1/30 of an inch apart, be placed 10 feet away from the
observer, these dots will be seen as separated, whilst dots (in this
case they should be black and of good dimensions) placed half-an-inch
apart would still appear as one if viewed at the same distance near
the periphery of the retina. In the yellow spot the distance apart of
the cones is such that they subtend about the same angle as the dots
when they are seen separate, viz., about 60″; that is, they are about
16/100000 of an inch apart, and hence may have something to say to
the limit of separation. The field for the perception of colour is
different to that for light.

The diagrams (Fig. 3) will show the fields in a satisfactory manner.
The concentric circles are supposed to be circles lying on the retina
cor