which no sensation of light is stimulated
is shown by the black dot about 15° away from the centre.

I have only attempted to sketch, in unphysiological language, the
primary apparatus with which our experiments in colour have perforce to
be made.




CHAPTER II.


It will be seen, then, that in measuring colour or light several
circumstances have to be taken into account. These are not simple, and
require differentiating one from another before the results of colour
measures can be finally laid down as correct, or as being held to be
applicable to all cases.

We must naturally ask, what is colour? The answer I should like to pass
over entirely. It can only be described as a sensation, just as we
should describe touch as a sensation. It has, however, one advantage
over most sensations, in that it is a sensation which can be submitted
to empyric measurement. The question whether certain phenomena, such
as the colours produced by simultaneous contrast, are subjective or
real, does not require answering for the purpose that we have in view,
but the results recorded may probably help to throw light on it.
Colour is an impression caused by the stimulation in the eye of some
apparatus, that lies near the outer wall of the retina, the effect of
the stimulation being conveyed by the optic nerve to the brain. If this
apparatus be complicated by being made up of distinct parts, each of
which transmits its own kind of impression to the brain, it is not only
quite possible, but more than probable, that when one part is absent or
injured the particular impression for which it is responsible will be
lacking, and that the sum of the impressions due to the remainder will
be unlike that perceived when they are all working together.

In every investigation, whether it be in physical or in any other
branch of science, it is better to work up from the simple to the
more complicated; and acting on this plan, it is better to commence
experimenting with simple rather than with complex colours, though
they may apparently produce precisely the same sensations. I shall,
with this in view, devote most of the remaining part of this chapter
to some necessary experiments with simple colours. The simple colours
are those of the spectrum, and are the result of motion in the ether,
which pervades all space. The motion is in the form of undulations or
waves, and each colour is due to a series of these waves, which have a
definite length. Thus, 6562 ten-millionths of a millimetre produces
to most of us a red colour in the spectrum (see Plate I.), occupying
the position indicated by a black line known as the C line in the solar
spectrum.

A table of wave-lengths of certain lines in the solar spectrum is given
below:--


TABLE OF WAVE-LENGTHS IN TEN-MILLIONTHS OF A MILLIMETRE.

  B, deep red           6866
  Lithium, cherry red   6705
  C, red                6562
  D, orange             5892
  E, green              5269
  b, green              5183
  F, bluish green       4861
  Lithium, blue  