iginally by disease. In the congenital form, it is true, no disease
of the retina is traceable in the eye, and it is usually hereditary,
but it does not follow that the want of response of the perceiving
apparatus to certain sensations may not have been due to what, for want
of a better expression, I may call an hereditary partial paralysis
of the perceiving apparatus. If this be so, we have a connecting link
between the two classes, and then a perfect theory should explain both
classes on the same grounds. The suspicion that the monochromatic
vision of P. and Q. might possibly be due to disease before birth,
owing to the behaviour of their eyes under certain conditions, would
then be explicable. I have no desire to press this view, though it
seems to me to be one which is not out of all reason, taking analogies
from other defects which are hereditary.

It has been usually accepted that the fields for blue and yellow in
the eye are approximately the same, as are those of the green and red,
and this has been taken as showing the interdependence between the
two pairs according to the Hering theory. It has already been pointed
out that the question of extent of fields requires still further
investigation beyond that which it has received, and measures made by
the method given on page 208 seem to cast a doubt as to whether this
interdependence can be upheld. It will be noticed that the fields
do not extend proportionately on the nasal and temporal sides (see
also Fig. 3). It should also be remarked that the order of extent of
field for the different colours does not follow the same order as
their disappearance. A point that is sometimes raised in favour of
Hering’s theory is the negative image formed after the eye is fatigued
by looking at bright red or bright green. The negative images (see
page 30) are said to be the complementary of these colours. The Young
theory tells us that the red or the green sensation suffers fatigue
by one or other colour, and that when the eye subsequently rests on a
grey surface the other two sensations are chiefly stimulated and cause
the complementary colour. It is said that it is easier to produce a
_negative green_ image than a _negative red_ image, and the adherents
of Hering tell us that this is due to the fact that destructive action
is more readily carried out than constructive. In the Young theory, it
is held that the green sensation is always mixed with white, whilst
the red is fairly pure, and thus, for equal luminosities, the surplus
green sensation is much less stimulated than the red, which offers a
consistent explanation of this fact. There are several other minor
difficulties in the way of accepting Hering’s theory as it stands from
a physical point of view, but we need not discuss them now.

The final sensation curves for the spectrum colours on the Young theory
are still under consideration, and are not definitely fixed, though
the observations made have been very numerous. Recently Helmholtz, in
the last edition of his “Physiol